Repeat of Revels, sing, game Maroon edi among plans of alumi reunion

A repeat performance of the faculty Revels, Come Back, Little AB, the Inter-Fraternity Sing, an alumni-varsity baseball game, the student awards dinner, and a host of parties, banquets, and meetings will crowd the schedules of UC alumni returning for the Alumni Association’s annual reunion, June 1-10.

Come Back, Little AB, the faculty musical Revels to be held June 3 at 8 p.m. in Mandel Hall features the University Comptroller as Chancellor, and Kimpton as a B and G janitor pleading, “May I make a suggestion?”

The Revels, which also includes the Dean of Students as a patent-medicine pitchman, a social science professor as chairman of the un-American activities committe, and a chorus line of faculty wives is open to both alumni and students.

Madame Ahmed Hussein, daughter of an Egyptian physician, and Wife of the Egyptian minsiter of social affairs will speak at 8 p.m., Wednesday, June 2, on ‘‘Women in a Moslem World.” Madame Hussein, who is appearing as a guest of the Gertrude Dudley lecture series, worked with her husband in developing Egyptian villages into community centers.

Squads vie for top honors

Alumni and varsity squads will vie for top baseball honors at the annual alumni-varsity baseball game on 3 p.m., Thursday, June 3.

Kimpton will shed his B and G overalls in favor of a business suit for his appearance at the Saturday, June 5, alumni assembly where the alumni gift will be announced and alumni citations will be awarded. Also on the assembly program is “Tomorrow’s University Community: a Campus and a Neighborhood Meet the Challenge of Change,” a panel discussion on problems of the Hyde Park community presented by authorities on neighborhood.

Saturday long and busy

Saturday’s activities begin with the alumni breakfast at which Fannie Butcher, Tribune literary critic, will describe “Some Authors I have Known.” Other Saturday afternoon events will be the alumni tennis round robin, the Emeritus Club luncheon, the Chancellor’s reception in Hutchinson Court, and the citation luncheon at which Dr. James W. J. Carpender, associate professor, department of radiology, will bring luncheon guests up to date on UC’s spreading hospital units and current medical advances. Student leaders of 1954 will be honored at a student award dinner at 6 p.m. Saturday with certificates from the Dean of Students and achievement medals from the Alumni Association. Guest speaker at the dinner will be Edward L. Ryerson, chairman of the board of trustees.

The Alumni Association has invited both students and alumni to the forty-fourth annual Inter Fraternity Sing in Hutchinson Court at 8:45 p.m., Saturday, June 5.

The medical division will hold its annual dinner and senior scientific session on June 9. On June 10 Phi Beta Kappa will initiate new members at its fifty-fifth annual dinner.

Friday

y afternoons.

Allen Janger

lien Janger was elect

the MAROON lor t

it of oming was held

During the Monday meeting, Jan* ger received the necessary twothirds majority, defeating Richard Ward and Mitchell Slein for the post

Janger has served as personnel manager of the MAROON and is, at present, a news editor. He is MAROON representative on the Student - Alumni Committee. He will assume his new duties in the summer quarter.

Janger is 21 years old and a graduate of the college. He is currently a student in the political science department and expects his degree next June.

SQ studies academic freedom; session forms interim group

Student Government devoted most of its Tuesday night meeting, its last session until the autumn quarter, to questions involving civil liberties and academic freedom.

The assembly authorized a letter to the House un-American activities committee protesting recent trends in the committee’s investigation of possible Communist infiltration in the

University of Chicago, May 14, 1954

31

nation’s schools.

Written by Martin Gouterman (ISL-bi sci), chairman of the SG civil liberties committee, the letter says that “the investiga. tions of higher education have become completely jemoved from subversion and are wholly concerned with ideas.”

Instructors liberties to be investigated

SG instructed the civil liberties committee to find out all it can about the suspension this week of three instructors by the University of Michigan.

Dr. Mark Nickerson, assistant professor of pharmacology; Dr. Clement L. Markert, assistant professor of zoology; and Dr. H.

— Chandler Davis, math instructor,

were suspended after they refused to tell the House committee whether they have ever been Con> munists.

Contempt citations recommended

Contempt citations had been recommended against Davis and against U of M students Edward Shaffer and Byron E. Sharp after they appeared before the committee.

Gouterman, in another report, announced that an investigation has cleared Billings and Lying-In Hospitals of charges of discrimination. He said the medical school is still being investigated on its admissions policy.

Summer committee set up

SG authorized its executive com SECC views problems of slums reports on past, explores its future

by Warren Roy Spachner

"The Process of Renewal —What's Been Done and What's Ahead," was the subject of a panel discussion which followed the second annual meeting of the South East Chicago Commission (SECC). The meeting was held at 8 p.m. Tuesday night in the Hyde Park Baptist Church before a packed house.

This discussion dealt with three major problems; the causes of slums, a proposed plan of the SECC to

rid the Hyde Park area of slums, and the effects on the landlords and tenants caught in the middle, if such a plan is put into operation. The discussion consisted of a series of questions answered by members of the panel.

According to the panel, slums are the result of four factors which may or may not act independently of each other: •

1.

2.

3.

4.

overcrowding of the residences in the neighborhood

illegal conversions of the flats or houses, etc., to accommodate this overcrowded condition

lack of proper upkeep and maintenance of residents by the landlords

the overcharging of rents by

ants.

This overcrowding occurs since people in areas adjoining the Hyde Park District, are forced into our neighborhood by the pressure of an extremely dense population there.

As to what SECC intends to do to prevent the complete ruination of this area, Julian Levi, executive director of the SECC, came forth with the following plan. Details are still being worked, but the plan should be completed Within 60 days. This plan consists of five points:

5.

development of new and adequate housing which will rid the area of the “cancerous blight” which is among us.

1.

2.

development" of an adequate school system with adequate playgrounds for the young people of this area

development of adequate parking facilities

Levi, "wo mutt not delay"

Levi concluded his remarks by saying, “These projects must meet the needs and desires of the community. The redevelopment of this area should serve as a model to other communities to show them what may be done along the same lines. Finances will be available to cushion the shock of those who find they must relocate because their homes or residences are in a blighted area. This is the time to

the landlords 3.

Landlord's desires

These four factors result solely 4. from a desire on the part of certain landlords for profit, without regard for the needs of the tenrevision of the traffic rules for safety and other reasons development of commercial enterprises to serve the ever-increasing demands of the neighborhood.

UC employees bargaining for wage hike, recognition

University employees are currently bargaining with the administration for union recognition and pay benefits. The University of Chicago Employees Union affiliated with the CIO government and civic employees organizing committee last summer after an unsuccessful attempt at recognition.

Among the union’s grievances at that time were wage inequities in job classifications, -: * , - Yancey, vice-chairman of the nalow wages, lack of an ade- tional CIO union. Yancey recently quate grievance procedure, led successful bargaining sessions lack of holiday pay in some de- for employes of the University’s partments, and Saturday work, medical center.

John Mc Collum, acting chairman The employes union, Local 1223, of the union, said. will hold officer meeting Wednes Bargaining is being led by John day, May 19 at 8 p.m. in Ida Noyes.

mittee, plus two minority members, to act on the assembly’s behalf until October. The interim group was prohibited from making changes in the constitution or the SG by-laws.

Clive Gray, president of SG, told the assembly that a smaller place is being sought for the proposed student housing cooperative following “unsa' isfactory” response to the suggested location at the Mayflower hotel.

The civil liberties committee’s report praised the UC-affiliated hospitals as “much better than

seize the initiative; we must not-other Chicago hospitals" on the

delay!”

People who were worried about the “plan” and how it would affect them asked a number of questions of the panel. The following is a summary of the answers given to these people:

"Pocket of blight" defined

At present there exist a number of blighted areas in our community. By law “a pocket of blight” is defined as an area with a minimum size of two acres or about half the size of the average city block. The buildings in this area are considered to be substandard as living quarters, so substandard

question of discrimination.

Announce next issue

This will be the lost issue of the MAROON until Friday, June 4, 1954.

in fact, that it is often recommended that they be torn down and replaced with adequate housing.

The “plan” wiil require at best 18 months to get the necessary approval of local organizations, city, state, and national authorities, but

See “SECC," page 2

Mandel concert shows Robeson

still excellent as singer, actor

Despite the objections of the American Legion Paul Robeson sang in Mandel Hall last Saturday night, and included in the bargain pianist Alan Booth. The audience was indeed fortunate that this boisterous crowd of patriots has not yet become the sole judge of musical talent in America, for Robeson is a musician of the very highest caliber.

His program consisted of Schubert, Dvorak, and Mussorgsky songs, various folk and popular songs, and the death scene from Boris Godunov. The last mentioned was undoubtedly the outstanding feature of the evening, and the magnitude of the accomplishment becomes even more imposing when one notes that the barest skeleton of the massive array of orchestral and choral mass present in this scene was represented by a piano.

Mussorgsky’s masterpiece is one of the half dozen really great operas. It incorporates the literary talent of Pushkin with the

composer’s genius, and the music is perhaps more the mirror of the text than in any other opera, which accounts for its failure to stand up in translation, be it English or Italian.

It would follow, and in fact does, that a singer with the musical and dramatic resources of Robeson should be ideally suited for the performance of the role. His interpretation was both faithful and beautiful, and one got the rare feeling of complete identification with the part, the only jarring element being a pronounced English accent in Robeson’s Russian.

Sw "Robe***/* p H J

Petti lhb M Katz proposes 'analyst-lawyer contract Outing Club to hike out west to determine responsibility of criminals in case of H'bomb raid

The UC Outing Club has scheduled a hike from the Univer"Just what people are responsible for crimes they committ” was a question discussed by Wilbur Katz, James Parker Hall Professor of Law, in the fifth lecture of the William Ellery sity to Palos Park a week from Sunday. The main purpose of ~ ' ' • ' this hike is to determine the minimum time required on foot

to reach safety in the event of an H-bomb attack on Chicago.

Channing series, "Psychoanalysis and Modern Life,” at Breasted Hall Tuesday evening.

The question of a criminal’s responsibility for his crimes arises, Katz explained, because psychoanalysis postulates the determination of actions by biological and psychological forces, while law' claims free choice of alternatives, free will for the individual. If he is forced to com Assuming that four miles per hour is a possible steady pace for healthy adults, the group hopes to cover a distance of 12

mit a crime, a criminal is not responsible for it; if he has a moral choice and picks an immoral course, he is responsible.

Discusses psychotic, 'normal' criminals

In attempting to assign responsibilit for crimes, Katz made use of the analysis in The Criminal, the Judge, and the Law by Alexander and Stamm. These writers claim that there are four types of criminals:

1. Psychotics—“the insane”

2. Neurotics — act out psychic conflicts in life with an attempt to get punishment (include eccentrics as w’ell as criminals)

3. Normal — persons actually well-adjusted to society, but to a society different from the usual: a society in which the superego is evil; “normal” criminals include professional confidence men, burglars

4. Occasional criminals — commit crime in a particular situation which loosens the “contract between the ego and id” (the person who picks up a $5 bill when it is near him and no one is looking)

All of these criminals are seen by society as an external threat, but also as an internal threat, lince example arouses the id. Society therefore demands punishment of all criminals. In fact, Katz •aid, some have proposed a theory that society needs criminals to punish; for punishment is an act of pure aggression.

Not responsible if insane

But some criminals escape punishment because of a lack of reaponsibility. Traditionally, the legal rule has been the Mc Naughton Rule to determine responsibility: there must be a disease of the mind resulting in a lack of understanding of the act.

The Mc Naughton Rule has been much attacked by analysts because of its emphasis on reason. Many proposals are now being made to modify or replace it with' statements like “No one should be convicted who, at the time of committing a crime, should have been committed to a mental institution.”

Rule placements controversial

But most replacements have been attacked by psychiatrists, since all criminals, “being irresponsible at the time of a crime, can be considered to be ‘forced’ to their act.” ,

But how can we deal with the public demand for criminal expiation ? How can we reconcile law and psychoanalysis? Katz suggested what he phrased “a crude working agreement:”

1. lawyers to realize that freedom of choice is very limited.

2. Recognition of the principle

4.

sible results.

Some sort of assumption of responsibility by criminals, perhaps in conjunction with the increased capacity for responsibility psychoanalysis can bring.

miles in about three hours. According to the Atomic Scientists of Chicago, who were consulted about this hike, most shelters more than 12 miles southwest of here might be safe assuming a three-mile radius of

Take the

NAT SCI I

comprehensive at the end of the Summer. Private tutoring -for individuals or small groups.

Phone PL 2-3790

$5 For Your Story on How You Earn

Money by Typing

Have you a story like this? An undergraduate in an eastern college washed dishes to help pay expenses. When the manager of the college ; dining room found he could type, the undergraduate got the job of typing all menus and thereby got his meals free for four years.

A girl in a Texas college is earning part of her tuition by typing and cataloguing cards in the music library from recordings and ms. of operatic works and concertos.

A nationally known typewriter company would like your story on ' how you typed your way to extra : money and will pay $5 for every story j which in their judgment is useable. I Address Bureau of Industrial Service Extra-Money Dept., 285 Madison 1 Ave., New York 7, N. Y.

3.

that “We really do have moral alternatives. Casual analysis dees not exhaust possible experience.’’

The criminal should realize that he has acted in correspondence with known pos Hauser predicts pop. to increase

A population of 190,000,000

by

1970 has been predicted for the US by Philip M. Hauser, professor of sociology and former director of the US Bureau of Census.

By 1970, Hauser said, Chicago will have a metropolitan area population of 7,000,000. The national

SECC

(from po^e 1 ) it is more likely that it will take three years.

Tenants are protected

Tenants of slum residences will, according to Levi, be adequately protected when this plan is put into effect. The relocation program will be carried on in stages and the SECC has 30 real estate offices at its disposal to help tenants find new homes.

Landlords on the other hand, will be made an offer for their property. This offer will be based on the value which is placed on the property by a SECC appraiser. If the landlord does not accept the SECC’s offer, and if negotiations fail, then the house or apartment building will be condemned. The condemnation of a given piece of

These proceedings which begin in the lowest courts may be appealed to the State Supreme Court.

No one gets "raw deal"

Levi and others have repeatedly emphasized the fact that "no one will get a “raw deal.” Furthermore, any tenant or landlord who feels that he has problems he wishes to discuss with the SECC, may make appointments with members of the board during office hours set up for this purpose.

It was also learned that the whole Hyde Park area would have new lights by 1955 and that the city presently is installing these on and around the University Campus.

Finally, police protection has, as a result of a relocation of men in this area, increased 40 per cent over what it was four years ago.

complete destruction and that a series of H-bombs would be dropped four or five miles inland from the lake.

The atomic scientists who are studying such problems point out that congestion and panic would probably slow down considerably those who try to reach safety on foot. On the other hand, motor vehicle traffic would probably get completely jammed under the present unplanned conditions. The only hope for survival in such an attack would be a desperate attempt to get away on foot.

Anyone interested in such “airraid practice” is invited to join this hike which will leave Stagg Field, 57th and University, 9 a m.. Sunday, May 23. Those interested merely for the sake of an enjoyable 16-miles conditioning hike are also welcome. Lunches will be carried by knapsack and finished off upon collapse at Palos Park. Return trip will not be on foot. Further information may be obtained from the trip leader, Dr. Jay Orear, at the Institute for Nuclear Studies, extension 3759.

labor force will be 84,000,000 by property must be approved first

that time.

Hauser forecast a gain in world population of between half a billion and one billion by 1980, which would mean an added world market the same size as all of Europe in 1950.

by the city council, and then by the state housing board. Both organizations will hold open hearings to determine what action, if any, is proper. Once these groups approve the condemnation, then Washington must approve it.

^Ae d^l^um PHOTOGRAPHERS

X/ Me firs/ /ouch of your /oe...you'll /efl us /TS me NEWEST THING TN HOWER!

Come drive it and yov’il say

MIDWAY 3-4433

1171 EAST 55th STREET

Chevrolet

out* accelerates

out- performs, out-saves

all other leading low-priced cars!

Come in and get behind the wheel of this great new Chevrolet. You’ll soon bo telling us that Chevrolet’s new high-compression power — highest of an/ leading low-priced car—makes it far and away the top performer In its field!

Road-test it I Str—l-tost it! Hill-ltsl it!

Chevrolet is powered by the highest-compression engine in its field—an engine designed, engineered and built to deliver more performance with less gas.

And remember—Chevrolet gives you extra value as well as extra performance-far again this year it's the lowest-priced line of cars.

Come in take the wheel of a Chevrolet at your earliest convenience.

GO CHEVROLET T ...efidget the most edi^nced \ engine in the iow~ptice field

Now’s the time to buy! Get our BIG DEAL! Enjoy a New Chevrolet!

YOUR CHEVROLET DEALER M#y 14, 1954

w^<

THE CHICAGO MAROON

Tillich to speak and lead service

Dr. Paul Tillich, world famous Protestant theologian, and newly-appointed professor of Systematic Theology at Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass., will preach in Rockefeller Memorial Chapel at Sunday’s 11 a.m. service and will lecture on campus Monday noon and Monday evening under the auspices of the Chapel Monday noon Tillich will speak on “Myth and Symbol in European Theology,” to a faculty group invited by Dean John B. Thompson. The subject of the Monday night lecture, to be given in Mandel Hall under the sponsorship of the Chapel committee on religion and art, will be “Religion and Contemporary Visual Art.” The public is invited to this lecture which will be illus Jewett contest slated for FTS Bible readers

The Milo P. Jewett prizes for Bible reading will be awarded this quarter. There will be two cash prizes: $150 for the first prize, and $75 for the second prize.

Preliminary tryouts will be held in the Chapel of the Holy Grail, 1156 E. 57th Street, at 4 p.m. on Friday, May 28. The final contest will be held in the Chapel of the Holy Grail at 4 p.m. on Friday, June 4. The public is cordially invited.

The contest is open to students registered in the federation of theological schools. Students competing must have completed two academic years of divinity work.

Students wishing to compete should register at once in Swift Hall, room 101. All those who are interested in this contest should meet with William N. Weaver on Thursday, May 20, at 4 p.m. Swift 103, for an explanation regarding the material and procedure to be used in the preliminary and final tests.

trated with slides. There is no admission charge.

Dr. Tillich has also been asked to lecture on “Psychoanalysis and Theology” in Breasted Hall on Tuesday evening. This discussion is sponsored by The Channing Club of the Unitarian Church.

Tillich, professor of philosophical theology at Union seminary of Columbia University in New York, was called Protestantism’s number one philosopher two years ago by Time magazine, and at Columbia has attempted to bring together liberal and orthodox Christianity. He has built what has been called “one of the most impressive Protestant theological systems since the time of the reformers.” He is a member of the Evangelical and Reformed Church.

Dr. Tillich has recently returned from giving the Gifford lectures in Scotland. This position is generally considered the most distinguished philosophical lectureship in the world.

Denney wins award

Rueul Denney, associate professor of social science and a regular contributor to POETRY magazine, has been given the $100 Grace Thayer Bradley award for poetry.

POETRY magazine itself was awarded the $100 Robert F. Ferguson memorial award, given in honor of the late husband of Hazel R. Ferguson, president of the Friends of Literature.

Top prize of $300 was given to Ruth Moore, a SUN-TIMES reporter, for her book, MAN, TIME AND FOSSILS.

Beta’s booze brings bounce

Beta Theta Pi fraternity was placed on social probation last week in an action taken by William Birenbaum, director of student activities, and the Inter-Fraternity Council. Charges were serving beer as a main beverage at a campus open-house and the advertising of such a fact. The alleged violations were committed at the Beta “Stark” party on April 30.

Pending further inxestigation, a final penalty for breaking the two rules will be decided upon by the I-F Council.

The fraternity, protesting the action, has declared that the beverage served was of a low-enough alcoholic content to be permissible under University regulations.

Beta president, Stephen Mc Grade, speaking for the group, said, “We admit that we did violate one or possible two rules, but we think that a severe penalty would be in excess of the offense and we hope that it will not be made.”

UC, NU offer church

council free land

Chancellor Lawrence A. Kimpton’s offer of free land for the headquarters of the National Council of Churches of Christ has been duplicated by Northwestern. In March Kimpton offered the National Council, which represents 30 Protestant and Eastern Orthodox denominations totaling 35 million members, a full block of land along the Midway.

Wednesday, A. C. Van Dusen, Northwestern vicepresident, offered the Council land on either its Evanston or downtown campus. The offer was made at a luncheon of Chicago

Personnel Counsellor

Trainees

Openings in our attractive personnel offices for two college girls to learn interviewing and vocational guidance. 9-5, 5 days.

Typing not nec. Over $300 a month to start.

See Star Employment Service

116 S. Michigan R-1206

STato 2-3270

Rail magnates woo student for proxy by Bob March

Dave Parke, a UC student at Meadville Seminary, has plunged into America’s “biggest rail war in a half century.” In a bold move aiming at control of a two billion dollar corporation, Parke entered the fight for the New York Central Railroad by buying one share of common stock in the road from the brokerage firm of Merrill, Lynch, Pierce, Fenner, and Beane, three hours before the deadline for voting in the May 26 stockholders’ election.

Parke learned of the fight for control of the railroad between Robert Young, ex-chairman of the C&O R.R. and the present board of directors through an article in Life, Feb. 8, 1954, and decided to cast his lot with the aggressive Young.

Though Parke would not disclose how deep he is in the battle of financial titans, he is rumored to have gained control of holdings in excess of five dollars.

Since entering the financial war, he has received letters pleading for his proxy from Young, James Farley, and Chairman of the Board Harold S. Vanderbilt.

Parke described his ally Robert Young as “A real nineteenth century capitalist — with financial ability, vision, imagination, and guts.”

Dave Parke

business and religious leaders at the Congress Hotel.

Kimpton repeated the UC offer. “The University of Chicago is prepared to reserve an adjacent block for any denominational groups that might wish to move here later.

“The University also has agreed to find appropriate housing in the area for any and all employes of the National Council who would move here,” he continued.

Cost of the proposed building would be about 2.4 million dollars. Cost in the “Loop” would be about three million. At present the Council has temporary headquarters in New York, and must decide among sites in New York, Chicago, Cleveland and Columbus fur its permanent headquarters.

Young launched his fight by secretly selling his controlling interest in the tiny Chesapeake and Ohio, and carefully buying nearly twenty per cent of Central’s common stock. Promising shareholders aggressive reforms in the road, he hopes to gain control of the board by obtaining enough proxies from shareholders to win the May 26 election.

Parke claims that holding a key card in the tussle that is rocking Wall Street has affected neither his vocational plans nor his studies.

Two UC profs win NAS posts

Two more faculty members were recently elected to the group at the National Academy of Science annual meeting in Washington, D. C., bringing the total number of UC members of the Academy to 32.

The two UC’ers are Dr. William Bloom, professor of anatomy, and Frank H. Westheimer, professor of chemistry.

Membership in the Academy is awarded on the basis of significant work done by a candidate during the whole of his professional career.

Westheimer’s field is organic chemistry. In the past five years, he has been studying the chemical reactions of the body.

Bloom specializes in the study of the structure and development of bone in health and disease. He is a co-worker of Dr. Raymond E. Zircle, who has been using a pinpointed beam 1/12,000 of an inch in diameter produced by a 2,000,000 volt atom smasher for research into vital life processes in living cells.

JO BANKS

Creative Photography

When you pause...make it count...have a Coke x j

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY t The Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Chicago, Inc.

Xafca" k • retluwed Ueda-Mert. O ”• T*“ Cota Cole Compos

Buck Clayton Chet Baker Turk Murphy Columbia 12 $3.95

6457 Cottage Grove MU 4-7365

1367 E. 57th St.

THE RECORD OF THE WEEK Page 4

THE CHICAGO MAROON

May 14, ||

issued once weekly by the publisher The Chicogo Moroon, ot the publication office, 5706 South University Avenue, Chicago 37, Illinois. Telephones: Editorial Office, Midway 3-0800, Ext. 1010; Business ond Advertising Offices, Midway 3-0800, Ext. 1009. Distributed free of charge, and subscriptions by mail, $3 per year. Business Office hours: 1 to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday.

Arthur Brown Richard E. Ward

editor-in-chief managing editor

News editors: Noomi Birnbaum, Allen Janger

News Feature editor: Nellie Stoneman

Feature editor: Darnel Queen

Sports editor: Paul A. Hoffman

Copy editor: Jay B urbach

Advertising monoger: Revo Brown

Production monoger: Joanna Herlihy

Page one assistant: Michell Siem

Copy staff: Jerry Ex, Pam Brown, Jock Bur bach, Wilborn Brandon, Jeon Carlsson

Photographer: Joe Wolf

Editorial staff: Brino Bai I in, Robert Bloch, Davis Bobrow, Poul Breslow, Stephen Cohen, Diane Epstein, Al Fortier, Lennie Friedman, Suzanne Friedman, Miriam Garfin, Roberto Hopkins, Brina Jaffee, Justin Johnson, Jan Mojde, Neal Mermoll, Arnie Matonky, Spike Pinney, Elaine Pomper, Bob Quinn, Karl Rodman, Wolf Roder, David Schlessinger, Warren Spochner, Frank G. Ternenyi, John Twomey, Zahavo Dudnik, Arlene Petersen, Robert March, Ken Karlin.

Liberals protest

The recent presentation of Paul Robeson has been sponsored by a group which asserts that it represents liberalism on this campus. This sponsorship has in effect .been claimed to be an expression of liberalism.

As liberals, the writers of this letter vigorously protest this false association. Although we recognize and will continue to defend SRP’s right to this activity, we wish to express, with Birenbaum, our disapproval. Their decision Is in conflict with the principles of liberalism and is now serving to retard its cause. We protest on the basis of both principles and practical consideration.

On the ground of principle, we cite the following;

1) Liberalism is to be understood as a force dedicated to the preservation and expansion of the philosophy of democracy. This implies that liberals are committed to the preservation of civil liberties—for everyone. But liberals are not. by the same token, committed to the support of totalitarian causes.

2) The Communist movement is totalitarian in nature. It is dedicated to the destruction of liberalism. It seems to us that all the evidence indicates Robeson to be a representative of this movement. Robeson's civil liberties have not been abused. The action of SRP is not, therefore a defense of civil liberty. It is avowed support of Robeson, and Inevitably, of his cause.

3) Therefore the action of SRP constitutes a repudiation of the principles of liberalism.

On the ground of practicality, we cite the following:

1) Liberal action should be designed with the advance of democracy as the basic intention.

2) The results of SRP’s actions have

presentation of Robeson U tooth contrary to the philosophy of liberalism, and destructive of Its mission. We are compelled to arrive at two alternative conclusions. Either SRP is naively unaware of the nature of Communism and its design on liberalism, or else it Is sympathetic to Robeson’s cause.

In either case we disapprove. In either case we wish to destroy any illusion that SRP has performed a "Jibera!” action.

Liberalism and Communism are incompatible. Liberals should defend the civil rights of Communists, but cannot support the Communist cause.

As anti-Communist liberals, we protest, not the right of SRP, but their unwise use of that right.

Clark A. Kuchemoa I. Gregg Carter J. Arnold Meordon

Letter obscure

The phraseology in Birenbaum’s letter of the May 7 issue of the MAROON Is lost on me. I would appreciate an interpretation of the lines “the larger interests of the student body of the University community.’’

Z. Dornblott

NSA Regional elects officers

At the University of Illinois in Urbana last Saturday, UC students Bruce Larkin and Larry Lichtenstein were elected chairman and vice-chairman, respectively, of the Illinois region of the National Student Association (NSA).

Seven Illinois schools were rep. resented at this pre Congress regional NSA meeting.

The region recommended That a national academic freedom week be called by NSA for next year.

A delegation of Soviet students would be invited by NSA to tour the US under the terms of another proposal. A resolution calling upon NSA to further student cooperatives was also passed.

Letters Praises Robeson

Millions of dollars are expended to bring “enlightenment” to the peoples behind the so-called 'Tron Curtain” of the virtues of our democratic form of government, of the superiority of our way of life. Despite this vast outlay for caste over the “Voice of America,” propaganda, we have the rueful admission of authoritative sources that broad•'Voice of Free Europe’* and other media are regarded only as entertainment fare In these countries. People listen with tongue in cheek mentally comparing the wide gap between WORDS and PERFORMANCE.

How can it be otherwise when they read that Paul Robeson cannot accept an invitation to sing before a student body at a university without encountering opposition from a prejudiced and publicity-seeking source? The name of Paul Robeson is honored and respected throughout the world. To the peoples of Europe and Asia, he symbolizes all that Is decent and fine in our country. They rightfully regard him as one of the greatest artists of our time. He has sung before most, if not all, crowned heads of Europe. Thousands of music lovers have been turned away at concerts because of unavailable space at the largest auditoriums in Europe. Yet, this great artist is barred from earning a living in his own country and refused a *lsa to leave it. This is. indeed, a strange commentary on our democracy. Small wonder that we can convince no one.

Mr. Robeson has been accused of betog a Communist. This label Is bandied about too freely and recklessly by those Individuals who fear dissent; who would supplant reason with fear, suspicion and hate. He earned the enmity of government officials for opposing the war in Korea and, moreover, for DARING

to voice his opposition. (Today, millions are on his side.) He earned the hatred of advocates of colonialism for exposing the vicious degrading and inhuman Malan policy in Africa which dooms the people to an annual wage of less- than $100! Por his denunciation of the “Asiatics io light Asiatics’* policy, Paul Robeson won the acclamation of millions of peoples throughout the world, and the title of “Communist”—at home. I deem it a very great honor to have had the privilege of hearing Mr. Robeson sing on his all too-infrequent appearances in our city.

Nellie De School

been decidedly in conflict with this goal.

a) It has functioned to confuse liberalism, in many minds, with pro Communism. This makes it extremely easy for reactionary demagogues to dump Stalinism, democratic Socialism. New Dealism, and ADAism into the same ed basket.

b) SRP’s action compels unsympathetic liberals to take a position in defense of SRP’s action. This further confuses Communists with liberals.

c) Only Communism, not liberalism, benefits from this “unholy alliance.”

These, then, are our objections. The

Portress by

LOUISE BARKER

Photographer

1457 E. 57th St. BU 8-0876

 S STUDENTS & TEACHERS g I SUMMER EMPLOYMENT I

s TOWNECRAFT INDUSTRIES, INC., has openings for ; well-dressed, neat-appearing men in sales department. E 5 Full assistance and complete training given to men 5 5 selected. £

5 NOT DOOR-TO-DOOR — Use of auto necessary in your S S home area to secure appointments with contacts in the * | field. S S EARNINGS *— $98.54 to $197.08 plus bonus and incen- 2 fives will be earned WEEKLY during summer vacation £ with option to continue to work part-time after college 5 £ resumes in the fall. If you have had previous sales training 5 5 or enjoy talking to people like yourself and fit our S 5 preliminary requirements, J

5 Phone WAterfall 8-9874. Mr. Buucon, 5 district manager J

 Monday, Wednesday, or Friday, IO a.m. to 12 noon, — S or I p.m. to 3 p.m.. for appointment to interview. J 

HARRY A. ZISOOK & SONS

University District Renting Office

MAYFLOWER HOTEL 6125 KENWOOD AVENUE

Let us help you

GET OUT OF THE ROOMING HOUSES AND SUBSTANDARD BUILDINGS IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD For the convenience and accommodation of the Students. Faculty and Employees of the University we have opened a University District Renting Office to serve you In obtaining better housing.

Come In and let us know what your requirements are so that we may assist you. 

AVAILABLE NOW

Hotel rooms with, private bath and shower

Sgl.—$8 per wk.; dbl.—fitl per wk.

Hotel apts. with switchboard and maid service

1 rm. furnished apts. at $81 t^t rm. furnished apt. at $85 f rm. unfurnished apt. at $85

office hours 9 a.m. to 5 p.m Monday thru Friday THERE IS NO CHARGE FOR THIS SERVICE

main office

HARRY A. ZISOOK & SONS

/ ill Estate

17111. 7lt FL 2-5960

Serving Chicago since 1907

POETRY COM PETITION

Deadline 15 June 1954 For information write POETRY COMPETITION — CASH PRIZES The Heptagon Club, 550 Fifth Avenue, New York, New York

STUDENT TOUR TO MEXICO 21 Days Aug. 15 - Sept. 4 Vitis Monterrey, Taxco, Cuernavaca, Acapulco, Fortin, Capital, etc. First class hotels; travel via train, private cars, bus and plane. Experienced director.

DR. JOSE SANCHEZ University of Illinois Navy Pier, Chicago

o^.

in

Round Trip via Steamship $4 A A maut NT milinu AUV

Tourist lout Trip Air

SQeeio off saqqso in OVv season season

Choke of Over 100

STUDENT CLASS TOORS $£ J A TRAVEL STUDY TOWS

CONNOTED TOOM I*

University Travel Co,, officbl hooded agents far off Unas, hot rendered offi c't ant hoy al service on a business bo hi since 1926 _

^&w;< $m yowr fold*" ond d^o R* •*.^’* J£L > />£<S^£W

crowd all together on board. Enjoy a head start on home cooking with swell dining car meals.

TAKE EVERY!MING YOU NEED! Load# of luggage-room in your coach. And, you can also cheek a trunkful of extras.

RAIL BARGAINS FOR SUMMER SCHOOL OR FALL SEMESTER! If you’re returning for summer school, save

25% traveling home and back with two or more fellow students on special, money-saving Group Plan Tickets. Or, returning for fall opening, gather a group of 25 or more and you each save 28% riding long-distance on the same home-bound train, then coming back individually or as a group.

UNIVERSITY TRAVEL CO.

Harvard Sq , Cambridge, Mass

Consult Your Local Railroad Ticket A font Weil in Advance of Departure Date for Detailed Information

EASTERN RAILROADS

I

presenting our amazing new WASHABLE SUMMER CLOTHING THAT REQUIRES NO PRESSING

Here are the ideal knockabout suits and Odd Jackets for warm weather wear...made in our own styles of an Orlon1 and nylon blend that is lightweight, wrinkle-resistant, good k>oking. In addition the clothing launders easily, dries rapidly, requires no pressing.

Suits, $45 • Odd Jackets, $27.50

Swatches sent upon request

7 Du Punt’s fiber

ESTABLISHED IBIS

WHO

Mens Furnishings. Mats ^Shoes

346 MADISON AVENUE, COR. 44TH ST., NEW YORK 17, N. Y. BOSTON • CHICAGO • LOS ANGELES • SAN FRANCISCO May Hz 1954

THE CHICAGO MAROON

Pag# 5

Seyfert removed, lab school to have 4*year high

by Fred Solomon

University High School will have a new look next fall.

The duties of the Director of the Laboratory School, a post held by Warren C. Seyfert since he left Harvard 10 years ago, will be assumed by the recently-formed board of pre-collegiate education and by a principal /zin charge of the day-to-day administration in the Laboratory School."

In addition to replacing Seyfert, the board has decided that, as of the academic year 1954-55, the Lab School, instead of terminating at grade ten, will include an accredited four year high school.

Return to old days

This curricular reorganization is one which involves a return to the “6-5” program that existed in the Laboratory School between 1918 and 1937. Under this system the student will have a six-year elementary education, one “prefreshman” year at the seventh grade level, and four years of high school from the eighth through the eleventh years.

By the end of his senior (eleventh) year, the student will have

About* the story

The story of the Lob School reorganization is an important one with many ramifications. In order to bring the facts fully and accurately, before the campus, the MAROON asked Fred Solomon, Lab School alumnus and president of the class of 51, to undertake an investigation. Behind the story as printed here are many hours of discussion with the people involved, including Lob School alumni, parents, and students.

accumulated enough high school credits to apply to any college he chooses. If a student wants to enter the college of the University of Chicago he may apply for admission either during his tenth (“junior”) year or one year later, as a high school graduate.

In step with other changes

The change to a full high school program came as no surprise to Seyfert. Though not commenting on the merit of the action he viewed the move as being “in step with changes in other parts of the University,” and he pointed out that the new college program is aimed largely at the high school graduate.

Seyfert and the Lab School faculty members who were interviewed share the impression that the college will continue to accept tenth grades as a “concession” to the old plan. “It looks as if the student who hasn’t graduated from high school will become of less interest to the college as time goes on,” said Seyfert.

Chicago plan victim of mores

Harold B. Dunkel, professor of the department of education and director, of pre-collegiate education feels that in view of the new college policy it would be incongruous fpr U-High not to offer students the opportunity to obtain full high school credit before going to college.

To Dunkel, the failure of the “Chicago Plan” of early admissions may be ascribed to American mores. “I personally favored the 6-4-4 system of education, but the 8-4-4 set-up is as deeply rooted in the American tradition as the two-party system,” he said.

Davey praises early entrance

On the other hand, John R. Davey, dean of students in the college, had firm words of praise for the policy which has stirred educational controversy for the past 17 years.

“In the past, U-High graduates

BARBERS EVERYWHERE RECOMMEND WILDROOT CREAM~0ILT0 REMOVE LOOSE DANDRUFF KEEP HAIR WELL GROOMED

have done very well in the college, and their preparation has been more than adequate,” said the Dean. “In general, the early admission policy has proved very successful, and we are proud of the results. The students who have entered at the eleventh and twelfth grade levels have been quite able to “take” going to college; the non-high school graduates have given my office no more trouble than the older students.”

Davey was also dubious about how the new program could be supported as a move toward better integration of the Lab School with the University if it results in fewer U-High graduates continuing in the college. He explained that before 1937 only a third of the graduates entered the college and that there is little reason to expect much more than this proportion to come to the college in the future.

Not an educational advance

Davey commented, “This change can hardly be termed an educational advance. It is, rather, a move to satisfy those families in which the student (or his parents) feels sure that he does not want to attend our college. It’s a device by which those who want to go away to college may complete their high school requirements within the Laboratory School, instead of coming to the college for one or two years.”

Dunkel used this point in justifying the change pointing out that half of the U-High graduates who enter the college leave after earning tjieir twelfth grade certificates. However, any U-High alumnus knows that of the 80 per cent of each graduating class that enters the College, no more than one-fourth can be described as “sure” that they wanted to remain here for their undergraduate education; but a significant proportion of the remaining threefourths eventually decide to stay. College has done well by U-Highers

An example is the class which graduated from the Lab School in 1951: of the 45 students who originally had planned to “go away” after two years in the college, about twenty changed their minds along the way and decided to remain at the University of Chicago for their general education. Furthermore, this reporter personally knows that at least 10 of his former classmates who did go away are now doing “A” work at other colleges and will testify to anyone that their “preparation for college” has been exceptional. In the past, moreover, U-High graduates have frequently returned to UC for divisional work, and, in several cases, have returned to the college.

To this reporter, it also seems doubtful that those Lab School students who think they want to enter tlje college will do so before completing the full high school program. Dean Davey commented, “Because next year’s eleventh grade curiculum has yet to be settled, and because the change was announced so late in the year, nearly all of those tenth graders whom the college has admitted will matriculate next fall. Within a few years, however, the whole

picture could very well change.” He continued, “A future tenth grader will make the popular choice as to whether or not to enter the college before graduating U-High. The factors influencing this decision will be primarily non-educational— how much prestige will be attached to the senior year.”

Social factors powerful at U-High

It would seem to this reporter that the “non-educational” factors will probably work to retain the students for the full four years. The structure of the extra-curricular program is such that the student leaders are invariably chosen from the graduating class. Furthermore, interviews have indicated that a U-High faculty member expressed the attitude of piany of her colleagues when she said, “Of course we are going to want the students to stay here and f(pish our new program.”

Seyfert on the other hand, feels that if a student is mature enough, intellectually and otherwise, to be recommended to the college at the end of tenth grade, he should not be held back by .another year of high school. Whether this policy will be maintained by Seyfert’s successors, and whether future tenth graders will even apply to the college cannot easily be predicted.

No integration seen

When one remembers that it was Lab School students who

Warren C. Seyfert, director of the Lab School, in his office.

were the first “elderly admissions” to the college in 1937, and when one considers that for fifteen years U-High has provided nearly half of all the early entrants, it is difficult not to agree with Davey, who “can’t see that the change to a four-year high school will in any way improve integration with out college.” Another reason for the curricular reorganization must be found.

Dunkel may have revealed the most important reason for changing the program when he commented, “Integration with the University does not necessarily mean integration with the college. The board of pre-collegiate education must consider the interest of the University as a whole.

“At the present time, for example, the University is interested in maintaining the quality of the surrounding community. It is the lies have moved out of the area feeling that many desirable famiwho might have remained in the community if a full" high school

program had been available within the highly satisfactory facilities of the Lab School.”

Mrs. Mc Keon comments

Mrs. Richard P. Mc Keon, cochairman of the Tenth Grade Parents Association, consented to comment on this point. “It has been our son’s decision to enter the college next fall. But it is true that for a number of years, many parents of Lab School children have felt that they would prefer their son or daughter to stay on in the close circles of contemporaries found in U-High grades rather than enter the college at an early age. There has been doubt that sixteen - year - olds possessed enough social maturity to cope with the mixed age groups found in the college, although we have had very little information on the subect.”

On the topic of community service, Seyfert claimed that the Lab School “has done as much as anyone could” to help save the neighborhood. He insisted, however, that neither saving the neighborhood nor recruiting for the college should be primary factors influencing the policy decisions concerning the Lab School.

The power to make these decisions has changed hands in the administrative reorganization which has come, coincidentally, at the same time as the curricular changes.

Council of Senate voted changes

Last year the council of the faculty senate adopted the committee report which legislated Seyfert’s job of director of the Labortary School out of existence. This report stated, in part, that “educationally and organizationally, the Laboratory School has steadily lost connection with the University ... it has ceased to be a laboratory carrying on significant experiments.”

Dunkel expects that under the new arrangement, various departments and individuals in the Unisity will feel free to bring any “bright ideas,” “experiments, or research proects that they deem worth while to the board of precollegiate education for trial in the Lab School. It is hoped that these measures will “make the School in actuality a University school.”

Seyfert proud of policy

On this point, Seyfert firmly reiterated the policy he is “proud to have followed” during his 10 years

as director. “The door has always been open for anyone in the University to bring us his suggestions and experiments. If the research would not interfere with the education or well-being of the students, and if it would not take up too much of their time, we’ve usually said, ‘O.K., go ahead and try it out.’ But the faculty and I have never forgotten our responsibility to the students parents, who pay the University good money so that their children may get the best, educationally.” (Lab School tuition is $660-675.)

Dean Davey, who taught at UHigh before joining the college faculty, commented, “I have always had the feeling that the experimentation carried on at the Laboratory School has been wellsupervised, and usually contributed to the well-being of the student. The experiments certainly were never allowed to interfere with scholastic achievement and many of them, in fact, increased the educational value of the Laboratory School program. Under the administration of the board, I would hope that U-High would continue as a good preparatory school, as well as a center for experimentation.”

The present composition of the board of pre-collegiate education includes a pediatrician, a psychologist, representatives from the English and education departments, and a faculty member from the coll e g e . Chancellor Kimpton and Dunkel serve on the board, ex-officio. Dunkel said that in the future, policy decisions will come from this University board, not from professional high school educators. “The Laboratory School will thus be more closely integrated with the University,” he concluded.

Robeson (from page I)

Mussorgsky’s song “Orphan* did not come off quite so well, chiefly because the singer forgot from time to time that he was singing. The other works are too numerous to mention individually except to remark that Robeson is past master of their performance, and rumors that his voice has deteriorated were not confirmed. Robeson’s practice of changing the words in songs is not objectionable as long as he sticks to Jerome Kern, but the “Ode to Joy” belongs in Beethoven’s ninth symphony, and even the most tasteful transcription is sacriligious to my purist ears. Beethoven himself was unsuccessful in convincing Schiller to change the words. The matter should rest there.

Alan Booth functioned unobtrusively as an accompanist, but as a soloist he is borderline mediocre. His Beethoven was little short of atrocious. Of interest is the fact that he played some music of New China which was neither new nor Chinese. I should think that among 500,000,000 people there should be one composer of the stature of Oscar Strauss. The piano Booth played was ex' tremely clangy.

Fred Winsberg

Program for College Girls I ti 18 Weiks' Cosrsa * Dey ami Eviiing Classis RMtona Wt Tuition Rate* Come in for a Free Trial Le**on

Excellent paying position* open to all graduate*. Free lifetime placement service. Only authorized Comptometer School.

COMPTOMETER SCHOOL

UM Morehendiee Mart, Chicago 54, UI.

Tel. Superior 7-S60S BRANCH SCHOOLS 6223 S. Western Ave. • ORovshi U S-MSS 721 W. Chicago Ave.. E. Chicago, Ind.

EAST CHICAGO 400# 

May 14, 1954

'Salt of the Earth' gets 'pressure'

in production and distribution

Scheduled to open at the Hyde Park Theatre, 53rd and Lake Park Avenue, Salt of the Earth, probably will not open because of unnamed “pressures” on both the owners and the Moving Picture Operators Union. .

Since the Moving Picture Operators Union decided to prevent the showing of the film at a private screening, it has subsequently taken the stand that if a theatre with a contract with the union decides to show the picture, they will take the matter under consideration.

Critic praises film's merits; 'Salt of the Earth' moving

Salt of the Earth, a film about a miners strike in New Mexico, played Monday in Soc Sci 122 to what in this reviewer’s experience was the most enthusiastic audience ever gathered in the University community. The events leading up to the Documentary Film Group’s showing of this film on 16mm stock and the difficulty the film encountered in production

and is now encountering in distribution are presented elsewhere on this page. Anyone who has more than a passing interest in civil liberties and democracy in the media of mass communication should thoroughly familiarize himself with these facts.

The present discussion of the film will be restricted to those points dealing with its position and validity as a work of art.

Preliminary to this it is necessary to dispel any misconceptions that are operating to circumscribe the scope and meaning of the film by labeling it “propagandistic,” “ideological,” “radical” or of a “special interest” nature. In this reviewer’s judgment the makers of this film not only approached their subject matter with a minimum of preconceptions but with a maximum of artistic integrity and a rare and sensitive ability io let it speak for itself.

On fhe level of events, the film deals with a Mexican-American mining community in New Mexico in its struggle with the operators of the mine and the strikebreakers and the police agency that the operators mobilize. However, the dramatic center of the film takes place within the bounds of this objective task: the miners must realize that success in this struggle can be achieved only if they see the situation as going beyond the immediate question of accidents due to speed-ups in the mines. They also must see the situation in terms of the effects wrought on their wives and children and the kind of life they live in the primitive company-owned houses. With this grows the realization that the struggle must be waged by all—that the women have the right and obligation to participate in the strike on equal terms with the men.

These events were given a focus in the development in character of one of the miners and his wife. The roles, played by Juan Chacon, who is a miner, and Rosaura Revueltas, a Mexican actress, gave the film a depth and emotional quality that in this reviewer’s opinion has rarely been present in American films.

The scenes showing the growth of understanding between the miner and his wife, arising out of the participation of the women in picketing and the realization by the men of the problems the women faced, were unforgettable

in their portrayal of genuine love and human dignity. Especially moving to this reviewer was the subtle and complex characterization by Miss Revueltas of the miner’s wife; changing from a position of embittered despondency to a glowing pride arising out of meaningful participation and accomplishment.

Structurally, the film is developed in a straightforward narrative form with a minimum of complicating devices; this makes the one instance of parallel montage overwhelmingly powerful: scenes of the miner being viciously beaten by sheriff’s deputies are intercut with scenes of his wife in childbirth. The effect is a brilliant symbolization of the unity of the difficulties faced by both. Visually, the film was shot with an

Salt of the Earth stars the Mexican award-winning actress, Rosaura Revueltas and a large cast of non-professionals recruited from among the metal miners and was filmed in cooperation with the Mine, Mill, and Smelter Workers Union.

It was filmed near Silver City, New Mexico, and depicts the actual events surrounding a strike of Mexican-American workers for better working conditions and equality of treatment. Since its opening in New York City it has received excellent reviews in the daily papers, magazines, and the labor press throughout the country.

In New York the picture has been playing to capacity audiences for nine weeks. It opened in San Francisco, where the San Francisco Chronicle called it the “greatest film to have been made in America.” Since May 5 it has been playing at the Silver View Drive-In in Silver City, New Mexico. During the first four days of its run in Silver City it received 10,800 customers from a county of 20,000. Openings are scheduled during next week in Denver and Los Angeles.

Michael Wilson, the writer, came to know the New Mexican miners—who are the prototypes of the story—during a long and bitter strike they waged against the Empire Zinc Company in

1951 and was born there.

Because

1952. The story idea out of his first visit

it was the union involved in the strike, the International Union of Mine, Mill, and Smelter Workers was asked to sponsor the film. IUMMSW is an emphasis on images of sharp and ’independent union formerly affilipenetrating realism, on location in

the area where the actual strike occurred. Michael Wilson, noted for his work on A Place in the Sun, working with the miners, evolved a script that maintains a sharp purposefulness through a wide range of characterizations and situations. The film has gained a quality of roundedness and freshness through this interaction.

Director Herbert J. Biberman is to be commended for his skill in making the film a seamless, rounded whole. Working under difficult conditions, with a cast composed in the main of non-professionals (members of the International Union of Mine, Mill and Smelter Workers, Local 890), he wisely let these people tell their own story.

To this reviewer the film is a courageous testament to the view that oppression need not be crushing; that action based on cooperation and understanding can lead to a proud image of Man.

ated with the CIO. Since 1915, when Joe Hill, one of its organizers, was shot, IUMMSW has been well known in the trade union movement.

Shooting began January 20, 1953. On February 24, Representative Donald Jackson, Republican from California, at* tacked the film on the floor of

Congress as a “weapon for Russia.” Jackson indicated that he had not read the script or examined the circumstances of the film’s production.

Immediately after Jackson’s speech the leading lady was arrested on a charge of illegal immigration and eventually deported, members of the cast and crew were physically assaulted, two union halls were burned down and a vigilante committee sent threatening notes to the producers.

In addition to these direct in timidations such powerful representatives of the motion picture industry as Howard Hughes and Roy Brewer attempted to restrict the production and exhibition of the film.

When Salt of the Earth opened in New York City, the international president of the International Alliance of Theatrical and Stage Employees, the projectionists’ union, indicated that the International would not interfere with the presentation of the film. Nevertheless, some locals, including the Chicago local, (the Moving Picture Operators Union) have refused to project the film. The American Legion had planned to protest the New York showing but when an officer of the Legion saw the film, he said that because the only “istic” this film is “is feministic, and that’s not against the law,” the Legion would not interfere.

Toward the end of April, a contract was signed for the exhibition of the film at the Hyde Park Theatre beginning today. Trailers were exhibited at many theatres in the Schoenstadt chain of which the Hyde Park is a part, and a display was set up in the Hyde J’ark lobby.

One week later eighty-five invited guests, including prominent representatives of churches, labor unions, community organizations, the press, and educational institutions assembled at the Hyde Park Theatre for a private preview. At this time the theatre management was informed by the projectionist union that it would not send a projectionist unless a two year contract were signed for Saturday matinees.

A preview was arranged for May 5 at Igel’s Screening Room. Arrangements were made with the proprietor, Mr. Igel, who is also its projectionist and a member of the Projectionists Union, Local 110, Chicago Moving Picture Operators Union.

The next Wednesday, Mr. Kermit Russell, manager of the Schoenstadt Theatre chain, informed the representatives of Independent Production Corporation Distributors, Inc., that the Hyde Park Theatre would not exhibit Salt of the Earth — certain “pressures” had been brought.

That afternoon, several hours later, Igel informed the distributor that the business agent of Chicago Moving Picture Operators Union, Local 110, of which he is a member, had ordered him not to project the film to the private audience that evening. Igel said he would project the film if the ban were lifted.

A letter was sent by the distributor to the business agent of Local 110, asking for a meeting to discuss this matter and docu It was the evening after the letter was sent and after Earnest Callenbach, film reviewer for WFMT attacked the union's stand, that the union decided to “Take the matter under consideration.” That same evening the film was shown to most of the persons who had been invited to the cancelled previews by the Documentary Film Group here on campus.

In a statement issued to the press last Tuesday Herbert Biberman, director of Salt of the Earth and president of IPC Distributors, distributors of the film, said:

“We appeal to the community and to civic, patriotic, and labor organizations to contact the parties concerned in this matter to tell them they would like to see Salt of the Earth. We also ask the theatres of Chicago to make their houses available to this film. If such offers are forthcoming, we are prepared to show this picture.”

HAVE YOU SEEN THESE?

PICTURES FROM AN INSTITUTION by Jerrell. $3.50 The institution — o college;

The style — literate and witty;

The novel — Jerrell's

first.

HYDE PARK

8, rm. res. 5 bedrooms, oil heat, enclosed front porch. Near grade, high school and U of C. Suitable for a large

$2,000 down — $10,000 DOr Chester 3-1266

ACASA Book Store

CHOICE USED BOOKS New Lot Just Arrived Guaranteed typewriter repair service ,

1117 E. 55th St. HY 3-9651

WITH KISSES FOUR, A tense, swift-moving primitive surroundings.

by 

novel of sophisticated people in

A SPY IN THE HOUSE OF LOVE by 

Prose as finely wrought as poetry, as elusive as a dream— some of the best work she has done.

YOUNG MAN WAITING by Mortimer.

$3.50

the door to

(oliierh tlousfe torwogen |||yy

^OODPOOD w^v&Tiote: hyoepark 5-4500

Analytical exploration coupled with powerful visual description shape this intense novel about a group of artists in the mid-twenties in Paris.

THE RELIC by de Queiroz $3.50

The history of the life and fortunes of the most charming scapegrace in contemporary literature by the greatest modern Portuguese novelist.

UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO BOOKSTORE

5802 Ellis Avenue May 14, 1954

THE CHICAGO MAROON

Page 7

Saminsky dull, Ravel sparkles

Besides being on the same program, there was little similarity in the operas at Mandel Hall last Sunday. These were “The Vision of Ariel” by Lazare Saminsky, a world premiere, and the first Chicago performance of Ravel’s “L’Heure Espagnole.”

Although both were sponsored by the International Society for Contemporary Music, and are being given together in various halls in the city, they had striking differences in character, casts, and level of performance. The Saminsky is actually called an opera-ballet; there is indeed much more ballet, “

with almost no dialogue and only a few arias.

Although certain arias are effective, on the whole the music is competent but uninspired, and only forms a background for the action. This unfortunately had even more lackings; the choreography was confused and unrehearsed, as was the action, and the costumes and scenery were out of character.

The opera deals with the Jews during the Spanish Inquisition. Don Diego, or Ariel, receives a vision while reciting the story of Esther, during a Purim service. He sees Esther pleading for her people. Then he sees the ghost of his mother, and finally a procession of heretics escorted by soldiers of the Inquisition. Ariel offers up a prayer for the innocent in a moving aria (“Av Horachamim”); soldiers enter the synagogue, and Ariel dies fighting.

Lantern slides, projected on to a backdrop, replaced formal scenery. This was effective and practical, but many were poorly made, and some' surrealistic specimens particularly so. The costumes, choreography and general effect were all impressionistic, destroying the distinction between the vision and the reality.

The solos by Norma Williams and Sheldon Merel provided a few parts of higher quality, but could not save the whole production. Admittedly the music might have sounded better with an orchestra.

w CANOE TRIPS

Qitetico-Superior Wilderness. Only $5.00 per man day for complete outfit, aluminum canoe and food. For free folder and map write: Bill Rom, CANOE COUNTRY OUTFITTERS, Box 717 C, Ely, Minnesota.

Monday, May 17—Los Olvidados (Mexican)

International House Movie Program

Eost Lounge, Mondoy and Thursday Evenings at 7:00 P.M. and 9:00 P.M.

Admission 35c

OPEN CITY

'Superlative! You shouldn't miss

New Yorker

All Performances

If You Present Your ID Cord of the Boxoffice

with Pride

Anna Magnani's greatest Her memorable debut role in Roberto Rosselini's

We Present

Anna Magnani's latest Her first English-speaking role in Jean Renoir's

THE GOLDEH COACH

*' A work of rich individual temperament pulsing joy •weeps through the picture" — Time Magazine

Student Rate 50c

NO 7-9071 HYDE PARK THEATKE ^ra Starting Friday, May 14

ARE COMPS GETTING

YOU DOWN?

DON'T DESPAIR

Just Read the New

CHICAGO REVIEW

On Sale

SPRING

MAY 17th

SUMMER

ISSUE

The “Ravel” was a different matter entirely. Written to a libretto by Franc Nouhain, it is a delectable bit of fresh humor and charming music. It concerns an affair involving the young wife, Concepcion (Anita Jordan) of Torquemada, an elderly watchmaker (Warren Hays), with Gonzalvo, a poet (Harold Brindell), Don Indigo Gomez, a banker (Andrew Foldi) and Ramiro, a muleteer Henry Noel). The action proceeds with Gonzalvo and Don Indigo climbing in and out of two grandfather clocks and carried up and downstairs by the

New 'Review' achieves degree of excellence; spring-summer issue shows variety, originality

The spring-summer issue of the Chicago Review is varied, original, and on the whole, achieves a considerable degree of excellence.

The student verse shows a marked superiority to that contributed by professional poets. William Carlos Williams’ “View by Color Photography” and “Wooden Flowers” by Chris Bjerknes both employ non-metrical rhythms, lines of uneven length, and an indentation which moves the lines downward and across the page from left to right. Bjerknes has integrated these visual and auditory devices with the rest of the poem by using the line terminations to point the natural occurrence of caesurae and the indentations to emphasize the falling cadences in the rhythm. By contrast, William’s use of the devices remains on the surface of the poem, obscuring rather than assisting it.

Charm is not one of the human qualities which appear most frequently in modern poetry, but it does appear generously in works by Ruth Herschberger and Mrs. Blanche Gonglewski. The former writer has supplied a fine comic poem on w'hat might seem an unpromising subect for light verse — Martin Luther. The reader who thinks the whimsical love poem an incompatible mixture of the serious and the farcical should find Mrs. Gonglewski’s Early Love as instructive as it is entertaining.

Jamie Redfield’s Euripides’

muscular and obliging Ramiro, until Concepcion, bored by Gonzalvo’s lyrical effluviences and Don Indigo’s pompous boringness, leaves them both downstairs and goes to her room with Ramiro, leaving the two unfor* tunates to be trapped by Torquemada and made to buy the two clocks.

The whole production was very smooth and professional, and the singing and acting could hardly have been better. The last quintet, a lampoon on Italian finales, was a fitting climax to a delightful production.

Robert Bloch

Vashi and Veena, Indian classical dancers, will perform traditional dances of India in Mandel Hall at 8:30 p.m. on May 23 and 24, under the sponsorship of the UC India Association.

Bhiru Ghami, IA social chairman, said that the dances will be of the Bharat Natyem style, and would be of great interest to persons not familiar with Indian art.

Vashi and Veena have appeared annually on campus for the lost four years. Tickets are $1 and $1.50, and are available at International House, the Reynolds Club and the Main Street Bookstore, 642 N. Michigan.

“The Bacchae”: A Review is a serious meditation upon three ways of life and the special significance of the way chosen by the artist. The fluid, unhurried, iambic line together with directness and clarity of statement effectively promotes the atmosphere of thoughtful calm. The relevance of the poem to its title is puzzling, but a line like “The children run to school, fulfilled in laughter” is a delight no matter what its context.

To Gibbon is a venture in a difficult poetic form. The poet pays tribute to another writer by incorporating into his own distinctive work the stylistic qualities

A drawing by Ghika far “The Oddessey."

of that writer. The problem is to be creative and derivative; Edward Barksdale has successfully managed both.

The most difficult and cer Thursday, May 20—Never Give a Sucker an Even Break (American)

Monday, May 24—Adventure in Tokyo (Japanese)

Thursday, May 27—Johnny Belinda (American)

Mooday, May 31—Tight Little Island (English)

Thursday, June 3—Francis (American)

tainly the most exciting of the poems are those by Janet Fiscalini. For an Old Man, Dying is an unconventional elegy, remarkable for the range and intensity of its emotions, which are conveyed by a no less remarkable richness of diction: “A runner’s words described your sudden rage of dying.” On one level, Flight presents a contrast between the condition of an officer in the regular army and that of a native interpreter who deserts. Embodied in the two men is an opposition between a life of tedious, restribtive order and a free life which is alien to hard commands. The contrasts in situation and idea are reflected in the diction and rhythm. The language at first is terse to the point of barrenness, the rhythm laboring and chopy. They modulate to something approaching the sensuous and finally return to the qualities with which they started.

One of the Review’s prize items is Irwin Schulman’s short story, Young Man’s Fancy. A character study of a man incapable of falling in love, the story achieves in a very small compass a remarkable fullness and intelligibility for its central figure. Given the space which Schulman has allowed himself, it is hard to see how it could have been better used.

The Search, by F. N. Karmatz, concerns a crtical moment in the lives of four members of the navy air force. Guilt and suspicion attached to an unsolved crime cause tensions to mount until the chief suspect reaches an understanding of what really happened in the past. An excellent conception has been marred by a disunction of character and action: the solution goes not seem to flow inevitably from what we have learned of the men and invites us to entertain attitude that have not been adequately prepared for.

The Review’s graphic arts section has been augmented until it is now a maor source of interest Of particular notice are the four section-heads by Joseph Pincus. Using pen and ink drawings overlaid with irregular smears of ink, Pincus has created a group of mucisians whose gentle and fantastic humor provide the magazine with some of its most engaging qualities.

Five sketches of Paul Klee which have not been previously published in this country, appear together with a commentary by Will Grohmann. While the drawings will not come as either a revelation or a shock to those already familiar with Klee’s brand of wit, they are still sufficiently fresh and revolutionary to make the commentary an instructive complement.

Quite different from either Pincus or Klee are the illustrations by Nikos Ghika for The Odyssey of Nikos Kazantzakis. Ghika has imported the classical setting of the book into his drawings by the use of a hard, incisive line and deliberately archaic distortion of anatomy. However, the grotesque violence of his subjects (also in keeping with the book) produces a total effect which is more medieval than classical and more Grand Guignol than . either.

Selections from Kazantzakis* continuation of the Odyssey appear in the fiction section. Taking up the story at the point where Ulysses returns to Ithaca, he has added a series of new episodes in a poetic style which Kimon Friar’s very readable translation represents as combining the Homeric qualities of simplicity and stateliness. Unfortunately the portions of the work which are given the reader leave the most important question unanswered: Does this rewriting of the Odyssey have a purpose beyond serving as a display piece for Kazantzakis’ power of original imitation?

The essay section offers detailed. treatments of Whitehead by Professor Charles Hartshorne and Ludwig Wittgenstein by Manuel Bilsky and Joseph Cobitz. Both articles take as their aim the statement of the respective philosophers* leading ideas and an application of these ideas to some major philosophical problems. The absence of student work in this section may suggest that students are not sufficiently aware that here is a possible avenue of publication for some of the hundreds of papers produced every quarter in the University.

The magazine’s final and exten See “Review," page 1 Fa^a 8

UT presents excellent production; three plays best in entire career

Last weekend University Theatre presented what was probably the most accomplished even ng’s entertainment of its entire career. The program of three one-act plays will be repeated this weekend, Friday, Saturday, and Sunday, at 8:30 p.m. in the Reynolds Club Theatre - - and it is the pleasure of this reviewer to urge everyone to attend.

First on the program is a light and inconsequential comedy-farce by John Morton, dealing w ith the housing situation and who’s engaged’to Penelope, entitled Box and Cox. Though

it lacks what one might call finesse, it is not unentertaining. Barry Sherman and Eddie Simmons, in their roles respectively of Mr. Box and Mr.'Cox, achieve a valid interpretation, although they lack control in execution. Carol Horning fills the requirements of the cockney landlady with satisfaction.

But “Aria da Capo” is pretty

Glee Club

damn good. Considered by many to be one of the finest one-actors ever written, Edna St Vincent Millay’s one-act fantasy in verse deals with those peculiar frailties of the human race which lead to

toperform

The contrast of early sixteenth century polyphony with nineteenth century romanticism will be the highlight of the spring quarter concert by the University Glee Club today in Ida Noyes Cloister Club at 8 p.m.

Featured works of the evening are two widely different musical settings for the liturgical hymn “Stabat Mater,” one by Josquin Des Pres, sixteenth century Ft ench composer of many masses

Edna St. Vincent Millay

and motets, and the other by Giuseppe Verdi of nineteenth century Italian opera fame. French horn soloist with the glee club in the Des Pres “Stabat Mater” will be

Edward Shepherd. Pianist William Hutchinson will accompany the Verdi “Stabat Mater.”

Appearing for the first time under the direction of Peter Gram Swing of the humanities I staff, the glee club opens the concert with three Bach chorales, “Break

forth, O beauteous heavenly light,” “From deepest grief.” and “Rejoice and Sing.” The latter two chorales have been specially edited by Swing, as has the Des Pres "Stabat Mater,” which is next in the program.

After a short intermission the Glee Club will return to perform the Verdi “Stabat Mater.” The concert will be concluded in a lighter vein with a Handel chorus from ‘TAllegro,” a Hampshire folksong “Swansea Town,” Irving Fine’s setting of “Father William’ from Alice in Wonderland, and two choruses “When I go out of door” and “After much debate internal” from Patience by Gilbert and Sullivan.

In several of the last numbers Hutchinson will be joined at the piano by Jim Maynard of the Glee Club in four hand accompaniments.

Cramming for Exams?

Fight “Book Fatigue” Safely

Your doctor will tell you — a No Doz Awakener is safe as an average cup of hot, black coffee. Take a No Doz Awakener when you cram for that exam '...or when mid-afternoon brings on those “3 o’clock cobwebs.” You’ll find No Doz gives J ou a lift w ithout a letdown... lelps you snap back to normal and fight fatigue safely!

98‘

IS tob Ufi-^jc

•arg® economy lit® (for Gr®®k Row and Dormi) 60 tablets —

SAFI AS COMII

THE CHICAGO MAROON

suspicion, hatred, and war. It describes a classical situation in which a children’s game becomes, a game of death while Pierrot and Columbine represent the apathetic attitudes of our society. Perhaps one of the reasons it is not better known is that it is by no means an easy play to perform. The entire UT cast deserves the highest praise for their well interpreted and very moving portrayals. Special laurels go to Catherine Allison and Hayme Bernson for their renditions of the shepherdess and Cothurnus, respectively.

The appearance in the play of this death-like apparation, Cothurnus, produces an atmosphere of hush and submission. One could not imagine anything that could be added to Bernson’s portrayal, for his appearance brought shivers to the backbones of the best.

The last of the dramas was Irwin Shaw’s sensitive “The Shy and the Lonely.” The play deals

Arlene Petersen

(LUCKY strike]

todays quiz

to

tastes better ^^“^^

CORR., THE AMERICAN TOBACCO COMPANY

GARETTES

C I

WHAT MAKES A LUCK/ TASTE BETTER?

May 14, 1954

Lee Wanerman and Martha Silverman in "The Shy and the

with the struggle of a young city college graduate to prove himself a man in term of the values of his fellows; i.e., successful seduction. His objective is a girl, who, according to the diagnosis of his more experienced friend promises to be a “sure thing,” since “her kind has to or she won’t get called up again.” These unhappy young people never actually see each other through the clutter of false values in their society. Martha Silverman portrays the girl who accepts the only alternative she can see to her loneliness with simplicity and even with a certain dignity. Lee Wanerman is the buffoon without exhibiting the unpleasant extremes that often characterize such roles. And, indeed, his ability is not limited to play'' it's To ASTED *

4o +as+e be He-f •

A Lucky v important reasons. 1means fine tobacco • good-tasting tobacco.

2> t^e Uer^It Lz SSi”'" taste Luck Fst Hw Vooess-the famoua ^Lg. fine tobacco... lf s I? taste even better Se^ fresher, smoother.

That’s why a k"?^*®3 taste* is why And naturally, students

thousands of col ^ other brands, arefer Luckies to an “

+ + taste. Be Happy—

So, enjoy better tas

Go Lucky’.

Lucky light, mild>

LUCKIES TASTE BETTER ( cleaner, -freshet smoother.

ing the buffoon for he handled the difficult emotional scenes in his part with assurance.

The production was greatly enhanced by an exceptional job of

casting. Mueller De Vise parts.

Hayme Bernson, Hank Brina Bailin, and Lucille brought real life to their

Such performances undoubtedly call for compliments for the directors: Otis Imbodin, Barry Sherman, and Eddie Simmons. The major ingredients of good theatre are manifest: substantial interpretation, simplicity of execution, sincerity, and vitality. Again it has been demonstrated that nonprofessional does not mean second-best. E c M * C A G O MAROON

Camera Club rates artistic merit

The UC Comera Club s onnual exhibit, shown in the Reynolds Club this week, shows on improvement over even lost yeor s excellent exhibition.

T^e mo^ noticeoble improvement is in technique, especially in the darkroom. Nearly every photograph exhibited is superior in this respect. But, even more important, the Camera Club has maintained high artistic standards, despite ~ 

g tendency in Americon photography toward lifeless, static, technical exercises.

Unfortunately, the judges of the exhibit overlooked the artistic

Choir to chant

B-minor Mass

The University of Chicago Choir will perform Bach’s Mass in B Minor. May 23, at 3 p.m. The concert will be in Rockefeller Chapel.

Conducted by Richard Vikstrom, the performers include Marion Davis and Charlotte Viksirom, sopranos; Audrey Paul, contralto; Ralph Nielsen, tenor; Henri Noel, bass; and members of Vie Chicago Symphony Orchestra.

Tickets are available at $2.00; student tickets, which must be purchased with an ID card, will be sold through Friday, May 21.

qualities of photographs on exhibit. and apparently awarded prizes on the basis of technical factors. First prize went to a study of a potters hands by G. Flaum. Though well done technically, the photograph’s treatment of an interesting subject matter leaves much to be desired. A very interesting photo of a stevedore by the same artist was overlooked by the judges, despite its vivid and dynamic treatment of subject master.

The second prize photograph, a portrait of a young girl by Jim

Whitman, is an excellent salon portrait.

Third prize went to Carl Stoffels for a rather drab study of a girl. The prize is almost an insult to Mr. Stoffels, who exhibited two excellent portraits taken France — "Patriarch,” (an elderly farmer) and “Merchant Oise.” These are both fine examples of the power of the camera as a portrait instrument By careful selection of subject, and

po^ing him in his environment ui a way that clearly points up his personalty through his relation to that environment, Stoffels creates a true work of art, rather a flattering likeness or study in tones of grey. It is unbelievable that a competent critic could overlook exhibits of such obvious artistic merit.

Honorable mention went to a study of a Negro child by the firstprize winner, Flaum. The photograph is a good example of the right approach in portraiture, but contains many technical and ar Student tickets for Phillipine concert

Catalina Zandueta, famed Philippine soprano, will present a concert tomorrow •at 8:30 p.m. in Orchestra Hall made up exclusively of Philippine folk songs, the first ever to be presented here.

Included in her program will be rare and unusual folk melodies

tistic drawbacks. Bob Lux earned honorable mention with a rather absurd "Reflections in a Glass Door.” The photo was good neither technically nor artistically, while judges overlooked a much better silhouette study by the same artist.

The 1953 and MM exhibits place the Camera Club in the forefront among amateur groups in the midwest, and even nationally, and rank it foremost among current creative efforts by students at UC.

Robert H. March

from the Igorot country and from the southern islands of the archipelago, as well as the more familiar "Tinikling” and "Ay Kalisud.” To dramatize the variety of dialects in the songs, Miss Zandueta will make five costume changes, each representing the re Catalina Zandueta, Philltpine soprano.

gion from which the songs come.

Special student coupons • enabling the student to buy any seat in the hall for $.75 may be obtained at the Student Service Center in the Reynolds Club basement. ,

Review r

i Mtt Hi WWl Wr Mm

The Spartan Band that held the pass. The Knights of Anhui 's train

The Light Brigade that charged the guns. Across the battle plain Can claim no greater glory than The dedicated few

Who wear the Wings of Silver ... on a field of A ir Force Blue.

Knights of the Sky..

Americas

Vl’^WMWMtl M

For Fellowship...High Adventure...and a Proud Mission

wear the wings of the U. S. Air Force!

In days gone by, young men in shining armor ruled the age. Today, a new kind of man rules the age —America’s Knights of the Sky, the Air Force Pilots! They rule from on high, in flashing silver-winged Air Force jets ... a gallant band that all America looks up to! Like the Knights of old, they are few in number, but they represent their Nation’s greatest strength.

If you are single, between the ages of 19 and 26(6, you can join this select flying team and serve with the finest. You will be given tl*t best jet training in the world, and

graduate as an Air Force Lieutenant earning $5,000 a year. Your silver wings will mark you as one of the chosen few who ride the skies in Air Force jets.

As an Air Force pilot, your kingdom is space—a jet is your charger and your mission is the highest. You are a key defender of the American faith, with a guaranteed future both in military and commercial aviation.

Join America’s Knights of the Sky, new men ofa new age. Bean Aviation Cadet! For further information, fill out this coupon.

UNITED STATES AIR FORCE

r cwa

| AVIATION CADET, AFFTR-P-4

| Headquorters, U.S.A .F., Washington 25, DC.

Please send me information on my r opportunities as an Air Force pilot.

। *

I • ••

I | 

(from page 7)

sive section is devoted to book reviews. Twelve books are reviewed, including The Languages of Criticism and the Structure of Poetry by R. S. Crane of the University’s English department and American Life: Dream and Reality by W. Lloyd Warner of the departments of sociology and anthropolgy. The reviews are un K formly competent, informative, and employ a variety of critical approaches which make possible the adjustment of viewpoint to the individual work under inspection.

The merit of this issue of the Chicago Review is indicated by the fact that it contains nothing so bad as to be unreadable and a number of things so good as to bear repeated readings. More can hardly be asked.

Robert Hendrickson

FLY

UNITED AIR COACH

Low fares, frequent schedules, and fast flights on United’s 4 Engine Air Coaches help you make the most of your vacation.

ALSO

Famous 1st Class Mainliner Flights with fullcourse mealtime service at fares comparable to 1st Class rail with berth.

Ch/cogof tor ro Mtyation^ tail tlnan M A-if OOt or an ovthorltoel trcral ogon K Page 10

THE CHICAGO MAROON

May Hr 1954

Weigh future of

JV athletics

by Palmer Pinney

Will the new college plan cause a decline in junior varsity sports?

Will there be a significant drop in the number of students eligible for junior competition?

From events of the past year, it doesn’t seem unlikely. During the past season, three JV teams have been particularly weak. In baseball, no practice sessions or games were held. The swimmers lost their sole meet to Mount Carmel, 15-60; the fencing team dropped their only meet, an unofficial one, to Culver, 6-19. In all these sports coaching and facilities were available, but insufficient student interest prevented a full schedule.

According to athletic director, T. Nelson Metcalf, the athletic department next year is “planning to proceed with JV teams to the extent that interest warrants.” Coaching and facilities in all 11 junior sports will again be available, and there will be no official curtailment of the program. Whether or not there will be a decline in JV sports depends entirely on student participation.

T. Nelson Metcalf ... If this participation should fall off, the program might be director of athletics, said shifted to the lab school. At present several University High “The ultimate future of JV athle- tenth-graders actually play on the teams which bear their tics is uncertain.” school’s name. The addition of an eleventh grade to the school

Trackmen tie Teachers, take second at Elmhurst

by Justin Johnson

Coach Ted Haydon’s spiked speedsters continued to bring fame and glory to the UC during the past week as they placed second in the Elmhurst College Twentieth Annual Invitational Meet on Saturday and then journey to the land of sky blue waters to tie Wisconsin State Teachers College in a dual contest last Wednesday.

With 19 schools competing, the Maroonmen were bested only by Michigan State Normal in

and a dwindling of eligible college students might combine to cause U-High teams to actually be composed of U-Highers. This shift is only one of a number of possible solutions to a problem that will not be apparent, if at all, until next year, Metcalf said.

Varsity teams seem secure for another year, but club sports may see some changes. The sailing club might become an official minor sport. Monogram awards are being given to the sailors instead of official letters. Again, official recognition depends on student interest.

The rifle, hockey, and squash clubs will continue their programs next year, and weight-lifting, handball, and volleyball may become club sports. Here, as with JV sports, the future is uncertain.

the Elmhurst meet, returning

Regulars absent

Haydon's run-for-funners proved once again that they are not a one-man team, since, competing without several of the team regulars, they came from behind in the last events to gain a 65%-65 >2 tie with Wisconsin State. Frank Loomos led the 13 Chicago •corers, winning both the 100 yard dash and the low hurdles and finishing second in the 220 yard dash to total 13 points. Art Omohundro demonstrated that his mile victory •f last week was no fluke by turntheir third team trophy of the

ing in a 4:32.6 performance to take first in the 4-lap event

Teammate Hal Higdon picked up second in the mile, helping Omohundro all the way with smart track strategy. Higdon came back to win the 880 just minutes later, this time leaving second place for Maroonman Arnie Meardon.

Howard wins shot-put

Jim Flynn and Paul Baptist emphasized Chicago supremacy in the distance events by finishing 1-2 in the two mile. The always

year to the Bartlett showroom, dependable weightman, Joe Howard, took his specialty, the shotput, with a heave of 42' 11% *.

The most exciting event of the meet was the final mile-relay where Haydon, utilizing his runners to their fullest capacities, elected to run Higdon and Omohundro (both distance men) along with Andy Thomas and Morgan Damerow. Thomas led off with his best quarter of the year, passing to Higdon just three yards back of the Wisconsin lead-off man.

See "Trackmen," page 11

Hal Higdon is the star miler on Ted Haydon’s squad. When Higdon feels in an exuberant mood, he wins both mile and two mile races. He was recently heard muttering something about being foiled by a stair-railing—or was it a Bannister?

It's murder! JV's get 6-2 point victory

The stockyards are some miles away, but Stagg Field was transformed into a slaughterhouse as the junior varsity trackmen rolled over Hyde Park High, 80 2/3-18 1/3, Monday.

Because game time was changed, Chuck Youse, the shotputter, missed the meet, giving Hyde Park their only first place *n 11 events. Lynn Small took first place in the 100 and 220 yard dashes and the high-jump to score 15 points. Mitch Watkins was high scorer with first places in both hurdles, and in the high jump and seconds in the pole vault and shotput, to score 22 points.

Other firsts went to Dave Northrup in the pole vault, Mike Binyon with a slow 5:25.5 mile, Pete Clarke in the 440 and John Saada in the 880.

Saturday, Jim Brown and Lynn Small, running at Kankakee, took first places in the 440 and 220 yard dashes, respectively, to qualify for the State finals.

WHERE THE Uof C MEETS TO EAT

£/m t^? gh/sgotsfat M

/ I TRIED DIFFERENT X BRANDS OF CIGARETTES AND I FOUND JUST THE

MILDNESS AND FLAVOR I WANT IN CAMELS. TRY 'EM YOURSELF-YOU'LL FIND CAMELS THOROUGHLY ENJOYABLE !

ROCK HUDSON says, “After acting in high-school plays, I got a job in Hollywood delivering mail so I could talk to stars and agents. The plan worked — one agent arranged a screen test. I worked five months without a day off — and it paid off with a good starting contract!” _

R. 3. Reynold* Tobacco Ofc Winston-Salem. N. C.

START SMOKING CAMELS YOURSELF!

CAMELS LEAD in sales by record

Make the 30-Day Camel Mildness Test. Smoke only Camels for 30 days — see for yourself why Camels’ cool mildness and rich flavor agree with more people than any other cigarette!

Newest nationwide figure** from the leading industry analyst, Harry M. Woetten, show Camels now 50 8/10% ahead of the secondplace brand — biggest preference lead in history!

•Published in Printers' Ink. 10M

*j# (Jamels agree wm more people My 14, 1954

THE CHICAGO MAROON Sports Briefs 

Beloit downs Maroon golfers, Jayvees split

Beloit golfers breezed across the fairways last Thursday as they defeated the Maroons, 13%-4%. Walt Bison and Bob Kelso were low men for Chicago with 78 apiece.

The JV golfers fared better on the Jackson Park course last Wednesday, losing to Hyde Park, 8^-6^, but they returned the same afternoon and defeated Morgan Park Military Academy, 11-4. Vance Dillingham shot 91 in both contests.

JV netmen win one, lose one The JV netmen, with Coach Joe Stampf subbing for Coach Bill Moyle, defeated North Park last Friday. Although the score was 3-0, play was close and hard-fought. Under Stampf’s leadership again, the JV racketeers lost by an identical score Monday to Francis Parker.

Beecher wins vollyball title '

Beecher House took the University volleybail championship, defeating Mathews, 2-0, and downing Phi Sigma Delta, 2-1.

Close battle in intramural tennis

Coulter House, Psi Upsilon and Snell are coming down to the wire in intramural tennis competition. Each has a 2-0 record.

In the individual tourney Martin Levy and Walter Jacque will fight it out for the championship Softball leaders tie for honors

In intramural softball Psi Upsilon and Phi Kappa Psi are tied for fraternity leadership, 3-0. Beecher and Chamberlin are likewise tied for divisional honors, 2-0.

Sports events this quarter

Today—JV tennis against Luther North on the varsity courts at 3:30. Tomorrow—Track against Central Michigan at Stagg Field and tennis against Bradley on the varsity courts, both events at 2 p.m.

Monday—Track at 4 p.m. on Stagg Field against Wright and Thornton. Tuesday—Baseball on Stagg Field at 3:30 p.m. against Navy Pier. —

Wednesday and Friday—Private School League Tennis Championships on the varsity courts. Saturday—PSL track championships at 10 a.m. at Stagg Field. In the afternoon at Stagg field, the Chicagoland baseball tourney and the trackment against Fort Leonard Wood, the former at 1 p.m. and the latter at 5:30 p.m.

May 24—the baseball tourney continues at 3:30 p.m. May 29—it resumes at 1 p.m. May 31—it concludes at 2 p.m. June 3—The varsity baseball team faces the alumni at 3:30 p.m. on Stagg Field.

 

He jests at scars that never felt a wound,” wrote the Bard. But cinemactor Charleton Heston suffers neither scars nor wounds from his dueling—epee lessons from UC fencing coach Alvar Hermanson.

Romeo and Juliet first enticed Heston to grasp a foil and don a mask at Bartlett Gym. While appearing in Anna Lucasta in 1946, he and other members of the cast learned fencing fundamentals as preparation for a forthcoming production of Shakespeare’s play.

Throughout the winter and spring quarters this year, Heston, clad in a custom-made costume, arrived an average of one evening a week to parry and thrust with Hermanson. Only last week were the lessons interrupted. The 20th Century-Fox star returned to Hollywood for his next production.

Heston may not have reached the swashbuckling stage of Douglas Fairbanks or Stewart Granger, but Hermanson says, “He’s not a bad fencer, as actors go.”

Budweiser

leads All Beers la Sales Today ...and Through The Years!

When you know your beer ...it’s bound to be Bud

You don’t have to fish around for the reason why Budweiser has pleased more people than any other beer in history. Its taste tells you that it is brewed and aged by the very costliest process on Earth,

USTEH TO

*SPORTS TODAY"

h*H BILL STERN MC KAMO NETWORK WWOW

MONDAY THRU FRIDAY WB>’

Pa9e II

Chicago Teachers Chicago-lllini defeat Maroon baseballers

Maroons fall to Teachers

The weatherman and Chicago Teachers College conspired to stop the Maroon baseball team last week—in the former case from playing, in the latter from scoring more than two runs.

The Chicago nine was dressed and prepared for baseball Saturday, but the weather was unfavorable. Though postmen may brave rain, snow, sleet and storm the Saint Joseph team was unwilling and the game was canceled.

At Stagg Field Tuesday—where the Maroons were the “visiting” team — Chicago Teachers College thwarted, for five innings, every Maroon attempt to score. Slowfooted running didn’t help Chicago efforts.

The Teachers’ baserunners capitalized on the wild pitches of John Broyles and the off-base throwing of catcher Gil Levine. Final score was Teachers 6, Chicago 2.

RHE

Maroons 000 002 000 2 7 2 Chi Teachers 102 100 20x 6 9 1 Trackmen (from page 10)

Both Higdon and Omohundro ran tremendous quarters, bringing the baton to anchor-man Damerow almost even with their opposition. Damerow proceeded to catch the Wisconsin runner but in the final stretch bid was unable to match the kick of Wisconsin’s ace quarter-miler. Even though the relay team lost, they pasted the secondfastest time of a Chicago team outdoors, 3:28.7, justifying Haydon’s wisdom in running his milers in the relay.

Pier triumphs in rout, 17'5

In a contest that featured 22 runs, 18 hits, seven errors; Walt Walker being knocked unconscious by a pitched ball; and certerfielder Jerry Couture disappearing in the middle of the game, the Illini from Navy-Pier waltzed to victory yesterday afternoon, 17-5.

Pitchers on both sides were wild and the fielders butterfingered, but Navy Pier took advantage of Maroon shortcomings to push across 10 runs in the fourth inning. Best Chicago hit was Gil Levine’s ninth inning homerun.

After the game second-baseman Brtlce Colby commented, “When we blow one we really blow it good.”

RHE Maroon 100 000 211— 5—5 5 Navy

Pier 004 1011 l Ox—17 13 2

Faculty, B-J clash today

It will be a battle between youth and age this afternoon as the Burton-Judson softball champions battle a team of faculty members. In the past this annual battle has been the scene of many potbellies bouncing, many errors and many students heckling their favorite professors.

Mathews House is the, student contender in this battle, having defeated Mead House Wednesday to continue their undefeated record.

Game time is 3:30 p.m. on the B-J diamond.

THESE ARE THE

R/^S Of C^mplonship 'Tennis

The Tennis Twins (Spalding-made) are unmatched in their record in top tournament play. And here is the clinching proof: The Wright & Ditson is the only official tennis ball used in all U.S.L.T.A. National Championships (since 1887). Official, too, in all U^S. Davu Cup Matches. Official adoptions of its twin, the Spalding, in other leading tournaments assure their championship stature in American tennis. Play the championship twins to your own advantage.

SPaldin G

Sets the Pace in Sports Page 12

May 14, 1954

Calendar

Friday, May 14

Third in a series of lectures sponsored by Haskell Club will be delivered at Breasted Hall, 5 p.m. Professor Kishimoto will speak on “Shugendo, the Buddhist Mountain Training Tradition.”

UC Glee Club will present its spring concert, featuring'Giuseppe Verdi’s “Stabat Mater” and Josquin Des Pres’ ‘‘Stabat Mater.” Peter Gram Swing will conduct. Cloister Club of Ida Noyes, 8 p.m.

-Dance of the Spheres,” the quarerly formal of International House, will be held at International House, 9:30 p.m. to 1:30 a.m. There will be music by Eddie James and his orchestra, and refreshments. Admission is $1.25.

Three one-act plays will be presented by University Theatre 8:30 p.m. at Reynolds Club Theatre. These plays are John Morton's Box and Cox, Edna St. Vincent Millay’s Aria da Capo and Irwin Shaw’s The Shy and Lonely. Tickets are on sale at Students Service Center and cost $1.

Humboldt Club will hold its last meeting of the year at Wieboldt 408. 4 p.m. Charles Bell will lecture on ‘‘Der Deutsche Charakter, Wie Ich Ihn Erlebt Hebe.” Refreshments will be served.

Saturday, May 15

University Theatre will present Its three one-act plays in the round.

8:30 p.m. at Reynolds Club Theatre.

Sunday, May 16

University Religious Service will take place 11 a.m. at Rockefeller Memorial Chapel. Dr. Paul Tillich will deliver the sermon.

Channing Club meeting—supper at 6, Fenn House, 5638 Woodlawn, followed by panel discussion “Anarchism vs. World Government.”

Final performance of University Theatre’s three one-act plays will be given 8:30 p.m. at Reynolds Theatre. Admission is $1.

Monday, May 17

Charles R. Walgreen’s Foundation

Lecture Series: “Puritanism in Old and New England—a comparative study of religious idealism in politics” will be given at Social Science 122, 4:30 p.m. Alan Simpson, assistant professor of English history, will speak on “Saints in Arms.”

“Religion and Contemporary Visual Art” is the subject of an illustrated lecture delivered by Paul Tillich at Mandel Hall, 8 p.m. The sponsoring organization is the Chapel Committee on Religion and the Arts. Admission without charge.

Tuesday, May 18

Speaker-luncheon, sponsored by the Inter-Varsity Christian Fellowship, will be held at Ida Noyes, third floor between 12:30 and 1:20 p.m. Dr. Edsen Peck, professor of physics at Northwestern University, will speak on “Practical Christian Living.”

Nathaniel Colver Lecture will be

presented 4:30 pm. at Swift Hall Common Room. David Owen Williams, resident tutor at the Trinity Theological College, Auckland, New Zealand, will speak on “Learning Aboi^ the Learning Process.”

Wednesday, May 19

Association of Interns and Medical

Students will hold a discussion about “The British Health Plan,” led by Denys Holland, labor attache, British Consulate, Chicago. Billings Hospital, G 106, 8:15 p.m.

Classified

Lost

Library book, Faust as the Renaissance Man. Blue wool mitten. Call Int. House 418. 

Missing since Tuesday, April 22, my girl’s Huffy blue bicycle, large basket. Notify Jeanne Hargitt, Green 58.

Maroon Sheaffer pen last Tuesday mornmorning between Anatomy and Ida Noyes. Pat Anderson Gates, Ext. 1029.

One pair glasses, green case. Rosenberg, B-J, Room 639B.

Found

One pair blue framed woman's glasses on Midway. Enquire 1138*2 East 61st, evenings only.

For Rent

Summer sublease, four rooms furnished, first floor apartment, three blocks from campus. DO 3-3787.

Summer sublease, five-room furnished first floor apartment. Two single beds, one double bed. One block from campus. BU 8-6654.

i • —*

Rooms available for summer quarter.

$26-$30 per month. Psi Upsilon, 5639 University Ave. DU 8-9870.

Furnished house for summer. Suburban, new, four bedrooms, reasonable. Gillam, Haskell M-117, Ext. 3428.

Faculty member apt. for summer.

Roomy, three bedrms . rent reasonable. 5521 University. HY 3-3087.

6-Room apt. from June 15 to Sept. l*j baths, sun porch. Phone FA 4-5816.

Help Wanted

Clerk - Typist. Opportunity for able young typist who can handle clerical details quickly, accurately, and neatly. Independent responsibility eventually for bright girl. Private research organization. UC, MI 3-0800, Ext. 1170.

Services

Dressmaking, alterations. Reasonable.

Phone mornings or evenings. FA 4-7646.

Rent an electric refrigerator as low as $4 per month. Also we repair refrigerators. CO 4-9231.

Mathematics. Special instruction to fit your mathematical needs. Individual or group sessions. Albert Soglin, ST 2-6727.

Tutoring in English in exchange for fee. Call 6-7 p.m. JU 8-0239.

Creative portraiture. All top grade photography, high quality, low cost, quick service. Joe Wolf, ES 5-1615.

Personal

Will the boy who found my Nat. Science book, April 27, please contact Jeanne Hargitt, Green 58.

Dear M—Please see me before June 9. Am leaving for Israel. Yours, Zahava.

For Sale

4-Door Packard sedan 1937. Radio, heater, excellent mechanical condition, looks a mess. Call Trltter, PL 2-9078.

Full bed, $15. Wardrobe, $8. Bureaus, $6, $10. O’Neill, 1130 62nd, evenings 6-9.

Oo-op apartment. 4 rooms In modem fireproof building adjoining campus Fireplace. Built-in bookshelves. Excel8* lent storage space. First floor Ideal fn Z adults. Service charge $48 per month Priced low by owner for sale subject tn board approval. HY 3-6450. 0

Typewriter—office T949 Remington with case, $45 or best offer. Mort Postor MU 4-6917. r’

Zenith TV, 17" Console model with aerial, $50. KE 8-3491.

Living room sofa, chair, vacuum cleaner and attachments. Cheap. FA 4-2685.

Black male kitten, six weeks old Call

MU 4-3916. “

1952 Chevrolet 2-door sedan, radio and heater, 22.000 miles, very good condition. Call HY 3-0875 evenings.

Co-op apartment, 5711 Blackstone. 7 rooms. 2 baths. Good condition. Modern kitchen. Large back yard. Moderate cost HY 3-5473.

Lovely mahogany furniture, some an* tiques. Phone DR 3-7367, 4811 Dorchester.

Wanted

Dog, remote, sardonic. DO 3-9666.

Faculty couple wants five room apart* ment between University, Harper, 55th and 59th Streets. Call FA 4-2283.

Copy in French of Durkheim’s “Le Suicide.” Communicate with C. Mountjoy. 919 East 56th.

Why store your valuable grand piano? UC faculty couple will keep It in excellent playing condition. HY 3-9155.

Tutoring in Natural Science 3, Biology, In exchange for fee. PL 2-2980 after 6 p.m.

Riders to Baltimore. Leave June 11, arrive same day. Returning around June 21. No driving necessary. Jay, PL 2-9718.

Interested in sharing driving and expenses to L. A. or San Francisco after May 28. Robert Emmitt, MI 3-6000.

Wanted: Young, docile unicorn. Pedigree desirable but unnecessary. For mascot, 4th floor, Green. Call BU 8-9500.

Today's CHESTERFIELD is the

Best Cigarette

Ever Made! &vn, ^r^n^im H.“^,‘fi J?JS The cigarette that gives you proof of highest quality — low nicotine... the taste you want — the mildness you want

“Thirty years’ scientific research goes into this cigarette. I’ve seen Chesterfield’s research laboratories and I’ve seen how they’re made! I wouldn’t smoke any other cigarette but Chesterfield!’’

M Starring in Paramount’s h/m P^&^fy “CASANOVA’S BIG KIGHT' V vv\7 \\jl ^ Color by Technicolor

The cigarette with a proven good record with smokers. Here it is. Bi-monthly examinations of a group of smokers show no adverse effects to nose, throat and sinuses from smoking Chesterfield.

Largest Selling Cigarette in America’s Colleges

TASTE and 1 mildness' 'j^S^k

MILLIONS

CHESTERFIELD

SFsrroffroi/

C^yrifht l X.l MMnk MHMT9MCw Ca