Qrodzins succeeds Tyler as

Social Science Division head

Morton Grodzins, professor of political science and editor of the UC Press since 1951, has been appointed dean of the division of social sciences, effective last Saturday.

Grodzins succeeds Ralph W. who began a leave of absence last June to become director of the Center for Behavioral Sciences, established by the Ford Foundation. Grodzins’ appointment is permanent; but should Tyler return, as Grodzins stated, “he would certainly be welcomed back at the University. He is a giant in the field of education.”

Gro’dzins will continue in his capacity of UC Press editor in addition to his duties as dean.

University of Chicago, February 5, 1954

Loomer

Could’nt act constructively

by Naomi Birnbaum

The MAROON attempted, in an interview this week with Bernard M. Loomer, who recently resigned as Acting Dean of the Federated Theological Schools and as Dean of the Divinity School, to discover the causes of his resignation.

Loomer first replied by stating, 'Tm not really interested in rethrashing old straw. What happened in

the past is water over the dam and I am much more concerned about helping to find a constructive solution to the present problem.”

Under further questioning Loomer remarked somewhat resignedly that he didn’t suppose he could keep on saying “No comment.” He then declared, “I resigned because it became ciear that I could no longer act constructively. It became clear also that recommendations from me with regard to possible appoint Photo by Kluckhoha

Bernard M. Loomer

Chester Bowles feted

to give foreign policy talk

Chester Bowles, the former American ambassador to India, will speak here next Tuesday, Feb. 9, at the invitation of the College and the Center for Study of American Foreign Policy. The author of the recently published Ambassador’s Report will discuss “United States Foreign Policy in India and Asia”

in Mandel Hall at 4 p.m.

The India Association will hold an Indian banquet in his honor at Ida Noyes today at 7 p.m. Bowles will deliver a short address and answer questions. .

Bowles went to India, October, 1951, doubling as the United States’ first ambassador to Nepal; it was his first trip to Asia. He had previously been governor of Connecticut. During eighteen months of service in New Delhi, his sincerity and disregard for protocol won him great affection among the people of India. Nehru reportedly remarked that Bowles was not only the ambassador of the United States, but that he and his family were the ambassadors of the American people as

Tyler, professor of education,

A member of the UC political science department since 1945, Grodzins is author of “Americans Betrayed,” a study of the treatment of the Japanese-Americans on the Pacific coast after Pearl Harbor. He was also principal author of the 1949 research report, “Federal-State Relations,” for the Hoover Commission. Currently, Grodzins is awaiting the publication of his new book, “The Loyal and the Disloyal.”

ments or promotions would not be acceptable.”

Loomer states reasons

Loomer explained, “I had been recommended by the faculty committee for the Dean’s job. This recommendation was not acceptable to Kimpton and some of the boards.” Chancellor Kimpton and five Boards of Trustees (the UC of Trustees of the four federated schools) must approve appointments of this nature.

When asked why he had resigned as Dean of the Divinity School, Loomer replied that the causes were concerned with the changes in the functions of the Dean’s office under the new Articles of Agreement.

Dean'* functions changed

Under the new articles passed last spring, concerning organization within the Federated Theological Schools, the functions of the Dean of the Divinity School were changed. The academic functions that formerly belonged to the office of the Dean were transferred to the Dean of the federated faculty. According to Loomer the functions that are left are concerned largely with “dealing with churches, ministers, organizations—in one sense public relations.”

“This kind of function is not

well. A public request for his retention was made by the Times of India when he was recalled last year by the Republican administration.

With a conviction “that the history of our time will hereafter be written largely in Asia,” Bowles has spoken throughout the United States since his return, appealing for “an enlightened, bi-partisan Asian policy.”

“I came back from India,” he said, “with a feeling of how critically important it is to avoid misunderstandings between the US and Asia. The gap is growing, unfortunately. Time is running out for Asia.”

SU sponsors student art show in March

UC artists are encouraged to submit entries for the All-Campus Art Exhibit, a Student Union presentation to last from March 1 to 6. Entries for the exhibit may be in either the graphic or plastic arts.

By special arrangement those students who wish to sell their works may attach price tags to them during the display period.

Applications listing name and address of the artist, and the name and type of his work, should be made in writing or phone to Student Union or the Office of Student Activities.

my primary passion,” Loomer remarked. “Even if I were acceptable to the Board of Trustees I would have resigned anyway.”

When asked if he would have been permitted to remain as Dean of the Divinity School Loomer denew Articles of Agreement I

would not have to the Board of Divinity School be unacceptable Divinity School

been acceptable Trustees of the either. I would as Dean of the for apparently

the same reasons that made me unacceptable as a candidate for the Dean of the Federated Theological Faculty under the several boards It is my understanding of . Kimpton’s judgment that while I have been acceptable as Dean (of both the Divinity School and the F.T.S.) in terms of the development of the faculty to its dared, “I think that under the present position, nevertheless the /uller development of the faculty, particularly in terms of its relation to churches and other groups, requires a dean with different abilities.”

When asked for the specific causes of his unacceptability to Kimpton and to the Boards of Trustees, Loomer replied that he

Hiltner sympathetic to policies

“I have been very much in sympathy with what we have developed here in terms of basic academic fundamental work of students — and plan to continue these policies,” stated Seward Hiltner, newly appointed Acting Dean of the Federated Theological Schools, in an interview with the MAROON this week.

Hiltner, associate professor of pastoral theology, described the program which has been developed here as growing out of a feeling that adequate preparation of students must include a broad grounding in the

total field of theology and religion as well As specialized work. He emphasized that he envisages no basic changes in academic matters, and that his appointment is an interim one, extending only until October 1.

Hiltner declared, “I don’t believe that the Boards of Trustees have criticized our basic educational policy.” When asked about the rumor that the boards would like the theological schools to turn out more ministers, Hiltner stated, “I don’t think that we could handle many more students and still do the same caliber job. I don’t think that there is an enrollment problem, but in addition to continuing the work with advanced students, it may be that we can and should increase slightly the number of B.D. graduates and students.”

Miss UC will be chosen at the Wash Prom, February 20, from the five finalists shown above: left to right, are Melicent Rupp, Quadranglers; Jamie Redmond, Snell House; Janine Johnson, Mortarboard; Janice Porter, Kappa Alpha Psi; and Barbara Horwitz, Kelly House.

Five queens on view

Last Tuesday evening in Ida Noyes Hall, five finalists in the UC queen contest were chosen. The judging panel, composed of Helen Wells, women’s editor of the Sun-Times, Richard Filbrick, reporter for the Tribune, Hal Block of television

and radio, Emmet Decimon, author of Fabulous Chicago, and Edith Grimm of Carson Pirie Scott, all UC alumni, reviewed the girls. The finalists were selected from a group of 15 girls elected as semi-finalists on Feb. 1.

felt it would serve no purpose to hash over old controversies now. Causes listed

The MAROON has learned, however, of four causes of disagreement between Loomer and the Boards. Loomer has long been noted as a staunch “Hutchins man” in educational policy. He and Kimpton disagree on several educational matters, including some of Loomer’s proposals for amending the educational programs of the theological schools.

The Chicago Theological Seminary, one of the four theological schools, disliked many acts of Loomer in his capacity as unofficial head of the four schools for several years. These were concerned mainly with his ideas on theological education and with his applications of those ideas. They were very much disturbed by Loomer’s desire to discuss a proposal for a four-year Bachelor of Divinity degree, instead of the present three-year degree. This grew out of his expressed conviction that the average B.D. graduate of the theological schools is not adequately prepared to under See "Loomer," page 5

Replying to questions about the ‘public relations” functions of his

Seward Hiltner

The contest will be climaxed on the night of Wash Prom with the crowning of the Queen by Woody Herman, guest attraction for the ball.

A Coke dance to be held this afternoon in the Reynolds Club

lounge at 3:30 is being sponsored as an opportunity for the campus to meet and talk to the five candidates before the campus election on Feb. 8.

The Wash Prom committee, in addition to sponsoring the Queen contest, has planned an entire series of events for the week-end of Feb. 19-21, to be known as Wash Prom week-end. Among the activities during that week-end will be a basketball game, a showing of University Theatre’s production of Playboy of the Western World at reduced prices, several open-houses preceding the prom, and a breakfast to be held in Hutchinson Commons from 1 - 3 a.m. immediately after the dance.

Dean Northrop plans research

Eugene P. Northrop, William Rainey Harper professor of mathematics in the College, has resigned as associate dean of the College to work “on assignment” by the University with the National Science Foundation.

He plans to devote a part of this year and possibly next year to studying, with a view to their improvement, the processes by which scientists are presently being educated in this country.

Northrop, who has been associate dean since 1946, plans to return to the College in October, 1954 or 1955 as professor of mathematics.

office, Hiltner remarked, “I hope to continue and extend the program of interpreting our schools and our program to the churches and others who may be interested. He continued, “I am convinced that an increased and deepened understanding of the policy and program that has been built up here during the past ten yeafs would result in clearer and more widespread approval of that policy and program throughout the churches.”

When asked if he had any idea why Chancellor Kimpton had appointed him to the Acting Dean's position, Hitlner replied, “I am hopeful that as one whose position on educational policies has been fully to support what has been developed and yet as one who has been at the University a comparatively short time, I may be able to accomplish the actions

See "Hiltwar," page 5 1

Page 2

THE CHICAGO MAROON

February 5, 1954

Chemist extends atom calendar.

A new technique that may extend the “atomic calendar” back 44,000 years and make it even more accurate was announced by UC chemist James R. Arnold, speaking before the Scintillation Counter Symposium in Washington, D.C. An assistant professor of chemistry in the Institute for Nuclear Studies, Arnold was associated with Willard F. Libby, who originated the method of dating objects by the amount of radioactive carbon 14 which they

AIMS told discrimination prevents equitable education

“There is no way of getting an equal education in separate schools,” said Dr. A. M. Mercer in an informal talk to members of the Association of Interns and Medical Students last

contain. The new device is described as ten thousand times more sensitive to radioactivity than the Geiger counter used

in Libby’s process, which dated objects back only as far as 25.000 years.

Housed in a deep freeze unit, Arnold’s scintillation counter detects, by means of supersensitive photomultiplier tubes, the light produced by carbon 14 radiations in a fluorescent solution. The freezing unit prevents the photomultiplier tubes, used to amplify the energy of the light and translate it into electrical impulses, from giving off as many electrons as it does at room' temperature. An electronic system sorts out from the electrical impulses only those at the energy level of the

Erickson to be at human

development meeting

Erik H. Erikson, authority on child psychiatry and psychoanalysis, will be guest speaker at the fifth annual symposium of the UC Committee on Human Development. The author of

“Childhood and Society,” Erikson will speak on “Identity and

Totality; Psychoanalytic Observations on Problems of

Youth” during the afternoon session of the all-day symposium. It will be held on Saturday, February 6, at International House.

Erikson’s report will be discussed by Professor Allison Davis of the Committee on Human Development, and Dr. Gerhard Piers of the Institute for Psychoanalysis. William E. Henry, chairman of the Committee, will be the afternoon session’s chairman.

The morning session, between

9:00 a.m. and noon, will be devoted to six reports presented by student and faculty members of the Committee on Human Development. Dr. Helen L. Koch, professor of child psychology, will report on her studies of family constellations and sibling atti When you pause...make it count...have a Coke

BOTTLED UNDUE AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMFANY IV Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Chicago, Inc.

"Co L.” it o registered trade mark. © '953. THE COCA-COLA COMFANY

He was assigned to the Traffic Department, which has the responsibility for seeing that customers’ calls are handled efficiently. The job included personnel work in addition to developing better operating methods and practices. He was quickly put on his own.

Now Ed has been transferred to the •job of estimating the amount and type of new equipment which will be needed in central offices as their customers increase.

Ed points out that projecting himself into the future isn’t anything new. That’s precisely what he attempted to do w hen he chose his first—and only—job.

• • •

Ed Mahler’s job is with an operating company of the Bell System. But there are also jobs for engineers, arts and science and business administration graduates with Western Electric, Sandia Corporation, and Bell Telephone Laboratories.

BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM

radiation given off by carbon 14, yielding a more accurate count. Errors may be reduced from a possible high of 130 years under Libby’s system to as little as 17 years.

Smaller amounts needed

In addition, a more compact and efficient shield of liquid mercury will replace the heavy iron shielding formerly used to keep out cosmic rays. Samples to be dated are now simply dissolved in the fluorescent liquid instead of being reduced to pure carbon, making possible larger samplings and better overall accuracy. Far smaller amounts of carbon 14 or other

tudes; Dr. Rosalind Dymond, of the Counseling Center, on research ip psychotherapy; Dr. Robert D. Hess, on transmission of psychological characteristics from parent to child; Miss Christine Kris, Institute for Juvenile Research, on assessing physiological age; James Abegglen, on mobility trends in American business; and Benjamin Wright, Orthogenic School, on the personality attributes of counselors of disturbed children.

The class reunion at his alma mater, Swarthmore College, was an eye-opener for Ed Mahler. The talk among the Class of ’50 switched to jobs. Ed had taken it for granted that everybody was happy with his work.

Then he found that some of his classmates had had two or three jobs since leaving school. Others had kept the same one but weren’t satisfied. By sticking with his first job and intending to make it a lifetime career, Ed suddenly discovered he had a head start.

After being graduated with a B.A. in Economics, he went to work for Bell Telephone Company of Pennsylvania in 1950. He reports he chose the Telephone Company because it seemed to offer the beet chance for a career.

After a year of training in which he worked in each of the departments — installing telephones, handling business contacts with customers — Ed felt he had a good look at the entire company.

“tagged” atoms would be required, as well. .

Med. school test scheduled in May

Candidates for admission to medical school in the fall of 1955 are advised to take the Medical College Admission Test in May, it was announced recently by Educational Testing Service, which prepares and administers the test for the Association of American Medical Colleges. These tests, required of applicants by almost every medical college, will be given twice during the current calendar year.

Candidates may take the test on May 8 or on November 1 at

more than 300 local centers in all parts of the country. '

Application forms and a Bulletin of Information are available from premedical advisers or directly from Educational Testing Service, Box 502, Princeton, N. J. Completed applications must reach the ETS office by April 24 and October 18, respectively, for the May 8 and Novembei 1 administrations.

A CAMPUS-TO-CAREER CASE HISTORY

Wednesday. Mercer, who is a member of the executive board of the NAACP and a past president of the Cook County Physicians Association, was speaking on the topic of “Discrimination in Medicine 1954,

Progress and Problems.”

Mercer sketched the long histary of discrimination in medical schools. Even after the close of the Civil War only a few Negroes were able to study medicine, and then only with the understanding that they would go to Africa to practice. Not until Howard University 11868' and Meharrwy in Nashville (1878) opened their gates, did it become possible for a Negro student to obtain an education in medicine. Today there are few interracial institutions and most medical schools have a quota system. Substandard education from the first grade on, coupled with social iso ACASA Book Store VALENTINES Contemporary and Traditional Guaranteed typewriter repair service

1117 E. 55th St. HY 3-9651

lation at the “white” school, tend to make the colored student unwilling to apply for admission to a quota-university.

Discrimination in Chicago works in several ways. Negroes in some sections of the city have to go as far as twelve m Hes to reach a hospital that will admit them. Chicago with its half million Negroes, has only about 300 colored doctors and only one hospital, Provident, to which a private doctor can take his patients. According to Mercer, however, there has been some improvement in this situation since the Commission to End Discrimination in Chicago Medical Institutions was founded in the fall of 1950. February 5, 1954

Page 3

THE CHICAGO MAROON

I forgot to door • story with Groen Holl."

UC mountaineers US loyalty programs

form new club; will show slides

UC Mountaineers, a group for all students interested in rockclimbing and general mountaineering, was formed on campus last Tuesday.

According to the president of the group, David Solzman, the UC Mountaineers has a twofold purpose. The basic aim of the group is to bring together all of those interested in climbing and to acquaint them with the techniques and practice of safe mountaineering. The group also wishes to introduce more students to the sport of climbing, and make available books, periodicals, and pictures dealing with the sport.

The first open program on Feb. 16 at 7:30 p.m. in Rosenwald 26 will be a showing of slides of the San Juan mountain area of southwestern Colorado by Willy Weeks, a graduate student of geology.

subject of debate

The Student Forum, debating society of UC, will engage the University of California debating team next Tuesday at 8:00 p.m. in the Judson lounge. Subject of the debate will be “Resolved: Executive Loyalty Programs on Federal and State Levels Are Unconstitutional.”

The University of Chicago team will take the negative position on the question. The California team, which will take the affirmative, is particularly intense about this subject because of the firing of several University of California professors under the California state loyalty program, according to Terry Sandlow, a member of the Forum.

Dave Chale and Bob Zener will carry the major part of the debate for the Student Forum. Sandlow said it ought to be interesting to hear a University of Chicago team defending loyalty oaths.

depends on the

RIGHT START

Join a progressive dynamic company that is setting new records in the electronic industry

^RAYTHEON'

Seniors and Graduate Students

Openings available for: ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS • CHEMICAL ENGINEERS

MECHANICAL ENGINEERS

PHYSICISTS

Raytheon is a pioneer and a leader in the electronic industry.

First to provide transistors in production quantities. Firsf to solve the problems of the mass production of magnetrons.

The leading supplier of commercial radar and underwater sound equipment.

Out front in research and engineering in receiving tubes, special purpose, klystron, cathode ray, and magnetron tubes, digital computers, ultrasonic equipment, control mechanisms, radar, communications, and TV equipment.

Raytheon Manufacturing Company

Waltham, Massachusetts

Call year College Placement Office for appointment

CAMPUS INTERVIEWS

Friday, February 19

Green douses Maroon reporters found 'dateless' story insulting by William Brandon

Green Hall was not its usual orderly self last Friday when copies of the MAROON disappeared from their usual place and two MAROON staffers got an unexpected shower.

The incident began when the MAROON published a notice that some of the Green girls thought “insulting.”

“They were quite unsportsmanlike about the whole thing,” said Allen Janger, MAROON news editor. “They didn’t even offer us a towel.”

The story appeared on page three of last week’s issue. The article invited to a Hitchcock house party girls "without dates for the Wash Prom.” The party was "to give Hitchcock men the opportunity of meeting campus women whom they might want to take to the Prom.”

The story was taken from a calender form handed in to the paper earlier in the week by Jay Schlossberg, a Hitchcock house member.

Demands apology

'Around noon, Friday, Miss Helen Fish, a resident of the house, phoned the Maroon office and according to Janger, demand"to find what the whole thing was about.”

"We never really did,” Slein said. "There were about fifteen girls waiting for us headed by Miss Fish. They weren’t much in the mood for giving or getting explanations. How could they go to the dance and admit that they wanted dates for Wash Prom, they said. All they kept talking

ed the possibility of peaceful settlement.”

Commented Schlossberg, “That was the first time we invited a college house to one of our parties. We’ll think twice before we ask them again.”

In spite of the events described in the story, the Hitchcock dance came off on schedule, Friday night. According to Jay Schlossberg, close to 250 people attended the dance, roughly half of them girls.

ed that he immediately come over about were ‘public apologies’ and to Green Hall to apologize to the

girls for the article. She termed the article “the most miserable piece of dirty journalism she had ever seen.”

Miss Fish added that she had stolen all the copies of the MAROON from Green Hall and that she would do it again in following weeks if the apology was not forthcoming.

“I couldn’t understand what she was angry about,” Janger said. “It’s not our usual practice to clear dances at Hitchcock with either Green Hall or Helen Fish. Green Hall was never mentioned or even alluded to in the article.” Reporters investigate

Together with Mitchell Slein. a MAROON reporter, and Schlossberg, Janger went to Green Hall

Int House group to discuss peace

A series of discussions on means of achieving world peace, sponsored by International House, will be held there in the East lounge at 8 p.pi. on Wednesday evenings.

The first meeting, to take place on February 10, will center its discussion on “Which Way to Peace?” Robert Pickus, director of peace education for the American Friends Service Committee, will preside over this talk.

The film, A Time for Greatness, will be shown preceding the discussion period.

‘front-page retractions’.”

Shower is result

According to Schlossberg, who escaped the water treatment, the showerbath came after about fifteen minutes of “fruitless but rather funny” talk. A girl by the name of Terrye Sagan appeared on the stairs above and behind the boys and emptied the contents of a coffee-tin and a glass over their heads.

Said Janger, “That sort of end Howard named business head oj U. college

University College has announced the appointment of John A. Howard as Director of Business Studies. ^

Howard, at present, holds the rank of assistant professor of business administration at the UC school of business.

He succeeds Royal S. Van de Woestyne, who is now an associate dean of the school of business. Van de Woestyne had notable success in the creation of the annual tax conference, according to Maurice F. X. Donahue, dean of the University College. Van de Woestyne also has been active in the administration of the business administration Master’s program downtown.

Howard has been associate director of business studies since October 1952.

* ' ?;

The new monkey in the bacteriology department showed a marked dislike for bacteriological research when it escaped from its cage last Monday and tried to climb to the roof of Hitchcock Hall. It was gently detached screaming from its third floor perch and returned unharmed to the laboratory by the pictured lab assistant.

J

after the Wash Prom

Alexander^

1137 East 63rd Street

Happy Hump Day

UNIVERSITY TAP & LIQUORS

1133 E. 55th

Phone Midway 3-0524

CIANT CLEARANCE

OF OUT OF PAWN

FINE SUITS & COATS

We

Must

Make Room

$1495

CERTIFIED STATE PAWNERS

838 E. 63rd St

Corner Drexel

Conflict confuses calendar council

The meeting of the Campus Coordinating Council (CCC) originally scheduled for this afternoon has been postponed because of a calender conflict.

The CCC meeting instead will be held next Friday at 3:30 in the East Lounge of Ida Noyes Hall. Organizations who wish to register events for the remainder of the winter quarter are urged to do so at the meeting, or to contact the Student Activities Office before meeting time.

Billiard provisions changed at Club

Effective immediately, the billiard room of the Reynolds Club will operate under a new system, and will be open Monday through Saturday from 9 a.m. to 10 p.m.

Any player may check out billiard and pool equipment from the information desk by depositing his I-D card and assuming responsibility for the equipment until returned. Fees remain the same.

While no attendant is in the billiard room, candy is available in vending machines, and cigarettes may be obtained at the information desk.

Eye Examinations

Visual Training

Dr. Kurt Rosenbaum

optometrist

1132 E. 55th Street

HYde Park 3-8372 P#ge 4

THE CHICAGO MAROON

February 5, 1954

Soviet factories described; farm life found difficult

Issued once weekly by the publisher. The Chicogo Maroon, at the publication office, 5706 South University Avenue, Chicogo 37, Illinois. Telephones: Editorial Office, Midway 3-0800, Ext. 1010; Business and Advertising Offices, Midway 3-0800, Ext. 1009. Distributed free of charge, and subscriptions by moil, $3 per year. Business Office hours: 1 to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday.

Arthur Brown Richard E. Ward

editor-in-chief managing editor

News editors: Naomi Birnbaum, Allen Janger, Nellie Stoneman

News Feature editor: Barbara Vogelfanger

Feature editor: Daniel Queen

Sports editor: Paul A. Hoffman

Copy editor: Shirley Long

Advertising manager: Revo Brown

Production manager: Joanna Herlihy

Editorial staff: Robert Bloch, William Brandon, Paul Breslow, Joy Burbach, Allen Coleman, Sondra Epstein, Leslie Foster, Suzanne Friedman, Ralph B. Hirsch, Roberta Hopkins, Arlene Kramer, Bruce Larkin, Jan Majde, C. Roy Maisch, Robert Mc Cluskie, Spike Pinney, Merrill Rodin, Karl Rodman, David Schlessinger, Mitchell Slein, Judy Smith, Franz Snyder, Harry Whiteley, Neal Mermoll, Justin Johnson, Wolf Roder

Cartoonist: Ray Nelson

Copy staff: Jerry Ex, Pam Brown

Photographers: Joe Wolf, Richard Kluckholn

The average Soviet worker or collective farmer works quite hard. Pay for industrial labor is by incentive wages. We visited the ZIS automotive factory in Moscow, a tractor plant in Kharkov, the second built in the Soviet union; a wool cloth factory in Tblisi was also on

our itinerary.

Soviet workers have a six-day work week with 48 hours per week required time on the job. Workers receive four paid holidays per year and vacations ranging from two to four weeks depending on the type of job. Wages are quite stable and their determination is not

Journalists, here's your chance . . •

Entering mid-year students — and all others interested in journalism — who would like to join the MAROON staff ore invited to the MAROON staff meeting next Monday, 3:30 p.m., at the MAROON office, second floor of the Reynolds Club.

Letters...

Hits MAROON report

Your story, headlined “Matron leaves dorm-fire hazard present,” which appeared on page three of the Jan. 29 MAROON, Is a gross and vile example of biased fiction, written and edited by half-wits. It contains a fantastically large number of errors, some of which have caused me embarrassment. .

Paragraph 1, sentence 1: Reference to a “Hitchock-Snell hall.” There is not now and never has been such a building at the University—no more than there is a Social Science Research Harper- La w - Wleboldt - Haskell - Classics hall. There are two adjoining dorms known as Snell hall and Hitchcock hall. I shall assume that “Hitchcock-Snell hall” refers to both of them.

Sentence 2: Reference to recently issued front door keys. Snell residents have had such keys for years.

Paragraph 2, sentence 2: Reference to a “Larry Draper, president of the Hitchcock-Snell house council.” There is no such organization. The only organization which a name remotely resembling this is the Snell-Hitchcock Forum, which is not concerned with this manner. Mr. Draper is not now and has never been president of the Snell House Council.

Sentence 3: Statement that “speaking for the council he said that under these new conditions the fire alarm system was deplorable.” Mr. Draper has never been authorized to speak for the Snell Council on this matter. If Mr. Draper is quoted correctly (an event which I consider extremely unlikely), he is in error. The reduction in service involves no substantial change in fire alarm procedure.

Paragraph 3, sentence 1: Statement purportetdly by Draper that this change is not a breach of contract. I am not so sure of that. Neither Draper nor I is a lawyer, however.

Paragraph 7, sentence 1: When you are referring to statements by a person, you should at least get her name right.

I expect that even such an incompetent journalist as you will see the necessity of printing this in your Feb. 5 issue.

Larry Fisher President, Snell House Council

Editor’s note: The MAROON did make one major mistake In its story, namely that Hitchock House is referred to in the article as Hitchcock-Snell Hall. Reviewing the alleged “errors” individually:

Paragraph 1, sentence 1: This is actually our error. However, the letter writer’s assumption as to the meaning of •‘Hitchcock-Snell” is Incorrect, as are most of the letter writer’s other assumptions.

Paragraph 1, sentence 2: Hitchcock residents have recently been Issued keys.

Paragraph 2, sentence 2: As the author of the letter probably is aware, Larry Draper is president of the Hitchcock House Council.

Paragraph 2, sentence 3; and paragraph 3, sentence 1: Draper is accurately quoted. If he made an error in legal judgment, this is not the fault of the MAROON.

Paragraph 7, sentence 1: This should read “Mrs. Mc Carn” instead of “Miss Mc Carn.”

The MAROON is sincerely sorry for the errors it has made. However, we hardly believe the story qualifies as “a gross and vile example of biased fiction, written and edited by half-wits.”

 • ZBT Fraternity presents H Dixie Daze I

J * Annual Open House 5749 Woodlawn ;;

Dixieland, Progressive Jazx by Bill Huff trio <►

; Saturday, Feb. ti ... 9 to 12 Demand Michigan Plan enforcement

In view of the fact that a proposed amendment to the Student Code and Regulations will come up before the Student Government next Tuesday, we think it is high time that a clear analysis of the situation should be presented to the students.

In 1951 the Michigan Plan was made a part of the Student Code and Regulations. At the time it was passed, Student Government held open hearings on the question. Phi Delta Theta made no objections to the plan then. It was not until 1952, when the deadline for the enforcement of the plan arrived, that Fhi Delta Theta began to complain about the unfairness of the Michigan Plan. According to the provisions of the plan an extension of one year was given to the fraternity.

The fraternity exhibited a great deal of lack of cooperation. They made no attempt to poll their alumni on the question and refused to report to CORSO what steps if any they had taken to eliminate their discriminatory clause.

Consequently during the campaign for the Student Government elections last October both SRP and ISL ran on platforms calling for enforcement of the Michigan Plan.

Last quarter CORSO began to investigate the question. They opened negotiations with Dean Robert M. Strozier

and Phi Delta Theta.

At first Strozier maintained that the

administration believed only in the spirit of the Michigan Plan and would not enforce it since it believed that

Phi Delta Theta was living by the spirit of the law. However, he finally was brought to the opinion that if the fraternity did not receive a threefourths vote for the abolishment of the

clause in their national convention, they would have to repudiate the clause by November 1, 1954. However, if they did receive the three-fourths vote, they could continue to discriminate until

1956, when either the clause would be removed nationally or locally.

What guarantee do we have that Dean Strozier will have any more respect for the Student Code in 1954 or in 1956 than he does now? Do we want a discriminatory fraternity on our campus until 1956?

The majority party in Student Government has continued to pussy-foot on this Issue for months. We as students, demand that they keep their campaign promises and take action on the derecognition of Phi Delta Theta, so that we will not have a discriminatory fraternity on our campus after October 1, 1954, at the very latest.

Norman Swenson Suzanne Friedmann

Mitchell Slein Lyn Burns Joshua Leslie Barbara Klein

Lenna Schweitzer Judy Smith Richard Kluckholm

"Vox populi, vox dei?"

According to the MAROON of January 29, the Teasons given for the addition of an extra year or two to the U High program were to satisfy “a wish on the part of residents to have a four year school,” the changes in the College program, and that “when you get too far away from other schools it becomes very difficult for them to learn from you.”

As to the first, has there been a serious effort to educate the community, or have we an acceptance of “vox populi, vox del?” A poll of community residents, asking them what they believe to be the features of an accelerated program might prove interesting, as did the newspaper mis-accounts of the recent College changes.

As for the third reason, one might ask how different is “too different.” The principles of the accelerated program are not recondite. Is “too different” synonymous with “basically different?” Then progress is impossible, except at a snail’s pace.

The reasons discussed made me wonder whether the only unsuccessful aspect of the U High program hasn’t been economic. Whether or not this is true should be made clear; if it is, abandonment of the program is only justifiable if the most ardent promotional efforts have failed.

Jim Davidco?!

the prerogative of the trade u

Comparison of wages difficult

The wages of the Soviet worker will in general pay considerably less than those of his American counterpart. A close comparison, however, is very difficult.

Prices appear to be set in relation to cost of production. The American dollar will pay four rubles. The beginning worker receives about 700 rubles. The average worker with some skills will probably be earning between 900

Russian report

The MAROON presents here the first in a series of articles by Richard E. Word on his recent trip to the Soviet Union. This article describes life on the farm and in the factories he visited. Next week Word will report on Soviet schools.

and 1,000. After a few years’ experience, skilled workers earn considerably more. But 1,000 rubles is not equivalent to 250 dollars.

Rent 5 % of income

The rent is not more than 5 per cent of a worker’s income; food is not expensive, but a reasonable men’s suit will cost about 700 rubles.

The trade unions are primarily concerned with administering pensions, education and vacation programs, and worker’s recreational activities.

Few loaf on job

Very few workers appear to loaf on a factory job. Work norms are stiff but apparently well within the capacity of the worker, since we were told that almost everyone meets them.

The tractor factory in Kharkov which we visited had about 13,000 workers, one-third of which were women.

Workers are young

The assistant director who took us through the plant was also the

chief engineer. He explained that about 60 per cent of the workers were under 25. The minimum age for workers is 17.

The assistant director was very anxious to hear our opinions on production methods in the plant. Conditions and assembly methods were much the same as in American plants, but machinery was not as new.

Factories maintain schools

Factories maintain kindergartens and nurseries for the chil RESTRING ^^

STANDS OUT in play

• Harder Smashes • Better Cut and Spin

STANDS UP

In your racket • Moisture Immune I

• Lasting Liveliness

costs less

than gut

APPROX. STRINOi Na COST: Fro-Fadad Braid... ,$6.00 Multl-Ply Braid.$5.00

At tennis shops and sporting goods stores.

ASHAWAY BRAIDED RACKETSTRING Choice of The Champions

dren. The fee is a percentage of the expenses incurred in feeding the children. These schools have much better facilities for children than do workers’ flats, so there is a strong inducement for the mother to leave her cfiild for the day.

Flats part of factory unit

Workers’ flats are often an integral part of a factory unit. They are located within walking distance of the plant and are built by the factory. Up to one-half of the profit of the factory may be used to better the facilities of the workers. The profit of the factory is never a stupendous sum, of course.

We visited several worker’s flats near a Tblisi wool factory. The different buildings appeared much the same; we could surmise that their flats were about the same throughout. The distinguishing feature of the flats was their smallness. They were not sub-standard units—had kitcnen and bath, two or three rooms, and possibly a sun porch. Invariably someone slept in the living room. No radiators in sight

Two or three flats were comfortably furnished, one was somewhat drab. I don’t recall seeing any radiators, but if there were any they were off. It was quite cold. These were probably average flats.

In Kharkov there is no television yet. At a tractor factory there were only about 300 workers who owned automobiles. Concerning automobiles, we were informed that coal-miners have the greatest number among workers. Collective farm viewed

The collective farm which we visited was about 20 miles outside of Kharkov. It had about 4000 acres and supported 1,200 people. There were about 400 families and the same number of workers.

Only 70 of the workers were men. This, we were told, is an extreme example of the losses suffered by the Ukraines during the war.

The farm was definitely not a

Guinness the Great • • • Lover in

The Captain’s Paradise with

CELIA JOHNSON — YVONNE DE CARLO

Plus Twa New U.P.A. Cartoons

NO 7-9071 HYDE PARK THEATRE h AS<PARK

Student Rate 50c All Performances

HARRY A. ZISOOK & SONS University District Renting Office

MAYFLOWER HOTEL 6125 KEWOOD AVENUE

Let us help you

GET OUT OF THE ROOMING HOUSES AND SUBSTANDARD BUILDINGS IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD For the convenience and accomodation of the Students, Faculty and Employees of the University we have opened a University District Renting Office to serve you in obtaining better housing.

Come in and let us know what your requirements are so 2hat we may assist you. 

AVAILABLE NOW AND/OR MARCH 1st

Hotel rooms with private bath and shower Sgl.—$8 per wk.; dbl.—fit per wk.

Furnished I1/, rm. apt.—$10 per mo.

Hotel apts. with switchboard and maid service

1 rm. apt. at $90 per mo.

2 rm. apt. at $107.50 permo office hours 9 aim. to 5 p.m Monday thru Friday THERE IS NO CHARGE FOR THIS SERVICE

main office

HARRY A. ZISOOK & SONS

Real Estate

100 W. MONROE ST. RAndolph 6-9250

Serving Chicago since 1907

model one. Its facilities were rusty; the common hall for recreation had no heat. Each family had its own house with three rooms. They all appealed about the same size. At the present time, only the director’s quarters and a few other important buildings were electrified. Kerosene was used for heat and light.

Each family had its own plot of land for individual use. The plots are used for raising the family food and extra produce which they may sell in special markets in the city.

Farmers proud of kolkhoz

The Ukrainian farmers were very proud of their kolkhoz, though they readily conceded that life was difficult. However, most farms do not own heavy harvesting machinery. It is kept at government run machine-tractor stations and rented to the farms. Each collective farm is a semiautonomous unit. Its plan is set from above by the regional planners, but the administration is local.

The present director had worked on the farm as a carpenter and agronomist before being elected to his position.

ZIS employs 10,000

At the ZIS plant in Moscow (ZIS meaning "Factory of Stalin”) there are about 10,000 workers employed. The main product is four-ton trucks. The factory also produced bicycles, refrigerators, buses and custom-made cars, such as ambulances and the ZIS limousines. The latter item is produced only on special government order.

The factory is a vertical organization taking pig iron and unfinished steel and producing only finished products.

Stakhanovites spotted

We inquired as to the price of some of the finished products.

The refrigerator sold for 2,000 rubles; the bicycles were priced at 550 rubles. Only the government buys the limousines.

(Continued next week) February 5, 1954

THE CHICAGO MAROON

Page 5

Loomer

take the positions today.

(from page 1)

functions involved in of religious leadership

Loomer has also been active in support of the Rosenbergs, who were executed as atom spies last year. His conviction of the injustice of their execution and his efforts on their behalf caused many members of the Boards of Trustees to desire his removal as Dean.

It was reported to the MAROON that Kimpton stated to various theological faculty groups that the Rosenberg case was a cause of Loomer’s unpopularity among the trustees.

The fourth cause of Loomer’s unacceptability to the trustees and to Kimpton, as it was reported to the MAROON, is their concern over “a dearth of public relations activities” of the Dean’s office.

'Freedom' signers wanted

In conjunction with “Freedom Week", February 12 through 22, the campus committee for the Crusade for Freedom invited the student body to participate in the passing and signing of “freedom scrolls," for the support of Radio Free Europe. All sudents interested may contact the Crusade for Freedom, Box 105, MAROON.

UC district aiderman believes

COMO

Hiltner...

(from page 1)

needed in the month ahead for the maintenance and extension of the educational policies.”

Ready to listen

Hiltner remarked that apparently Kimpton felt that he (Hiltner) would be ready to listen to the various points of view and interests that exist within the faculty, since he had not held any administrative position in the federation or in any of the schools.

Hiltner added that he had had twelve years nf administrative work on the Federal Council of Churches. ‘This may well have had something to do with it.”

political interests are picking up

by Alan Coleman

Robert E. Merriam, the Fifth Ward’s dynamic aiderman, sees a marked upswing in interest in the political life of the community throughout Chicago. “Apathy has been tremendously reduced in the last year and a half, both in this neighborhood and in the city.”

On the problem of deterioration in this neighborhood he said, “As a result of the combined actions of the Hyde Park-Kenwood Community Conference and the South East Chicago Commission and other groups, it certainly has leveled off.”

PIZZERIA

for discriminating Valentines it's

“We have under way a great many plans and ideas. Planning is the immediate problem of these groups.

“There have been marked improvements; they have slowed down movement out of the neighborhood.” But he stressed that what has been done is only a beginning.

“We need all the new building we can get. This is the type pf improvement we wish. However, total density of population should not increase. If anything, it should decrease.” Merriam favored plans to build one-family dwellings, and said, “Apartment buildings only compound problems. They increase the demand for parking space and adequate recreational facilities.”

Juvenile crime is related to the housing problem. Its decrease rests with the solution of social and economic problems. More adequate recreational facilities should be provided, according to

Robert E. Merriam is alderman of the Fifth Word, in which the University is situated. He graduated from UC in 1941.

the aiderman. 'The use of school facilities after hours would be helpful. Some experimental programs along these lines are being carried out in other parts of the city,” he said.

Businessmen show toct

Commenting on the need for improved local shopping districts, he asserted that many businessmen have been a little slow to realize the possibility for improvement. “However, they are gradually coming to realize that they have the ability to help themselves.”

“We are setting up a little experiment of refurbishing ward

great many people to this.” At present the committee that was investigating police corruption for the City Council has been put out of existence by a court decision. Hence the committee and the Report are in a state of “repose.”

However, the decision has been appealed to the Supreme Court, and when they have decided the case, the report will become a live issue again. But the struggle for better city government cannot be won by one investigation, Merriam said, and the problems of the neighborhood cannot be dealt with in the neighborhood alone. “Even with active neighborhood groups we cannot solve all our problems without concerning ourselves with those of the whole city. Our crime problem is afheadquarters to show how stores fected by the size of the police can be remodeled cheaply. They force in this area and this in turn

can do a lot if they get together and help each other on the labor.”

Leadership in the University community has provided “a real shot in the arm” in confronting both neighborhood and city problems, Merriam said.

In speaking about criminal problems, he pointed out that people in this area are more conscious of crime. ‘“We need considerable improvement in law enforcement agencies. There has been some in this neighborhood in the past few years. But more men and a tightening of procedures are needed.”

Police corruption generol: Merriam

“Police corruption is a general problem,” he said. This area is not more corrupt than others. The problem is part of the general corruption and inefficiency in the city government.

The Kahn report “awakened a

is determined by the city budget.”

Citizens hove more interest

Throughout the city citizens are beginning to take increased interest in Chicago’s problems, and are consequently taking a greater interest in political affairs. “Much greater selectivity in voting for candidates is being exercised. If the parties do not offer good candidates, citizens will bring pressure for better ones.”

Merriam optimistically suggested that the increased interest in city politics may be the beginning of better city government. He asserted that there could be much more direct participation by the University community. University precincts have a poor turnout, which, however, is improving.

His final point was that “not enough politicians are coming out of the student body.

ZWICK

1520E. 55th St

• Bar-be-cue chicken

• Bar-be-cue ribs

Bordelon

distinctive hand-made jewelry at

Designs

1424 E. 5 5h and University Bookstore *802 Ellis

Victor 12” LP

at

1367 E. 57th St

GUEST STARS EVERY SUNDAY NITE

&

Enjoy

Budweiser

“BEGINS AT 9 P.M. EVERY NIGHT*

Chet Robie, Sunday Nnight Guest Star

M4-1

USTt N TO “SPORTS TODAY” WITH MU. STERN ABC KAMO NTTWOBK MOMMY raw NU0AY

• DAVE DE VORB Strta# Ba M-Tuba

$$99

ANHEUSER-BUSCH, INC

BY. LOUIE. MO. NEWARK, N. J

a* •

^Disc

co W^

JAZ?D/Xlf

^^F^f^il A “The Battle of the Hot Rhythm* *

EVERY NIGHT —7 Night# a Week jazzy’s

Delivery Anywhere

FA 4-5525

Columbia 12” LP T

YOU KNOW YOUR BEER

its bound to be Bud

You see it so often... a warm welcome for a cold bottle of Budweiser. And it’s no wonder that the distinctive taste of Budweiser pleases people as no other beer can do... for only Budweiser is brewed by the costliest process on Earth*

Leads All Been In Salts Today and Through The Years!

• NEV BARCLAY

DIXIE *’S

e JACK IVETT

Corn.*

• FLOYD BEAN

Hano

• JIM BARNES

Drum*

• JUG BERGER

Clarln M

• EDDIE SCHAEFFER

Trona bona Page 6

THE CHICAGO MAROON

February 5, 1954

/

Aurora, Elmhurst squads overpower Maroon eagers

by Richard Herwitt

In two well-fought contests on foreign floors the Maroon eagers were trimmed by Elmhurst, 90-71, last Friday and by Aurora on Wednesday, 84-80.

The 25-plus scores chalked up by the centers of these two teams were essential in the victories, although in both games the Maroons, led by forwards Dave Smith and Bob Mann and

by center Wally Lonergan, made valiant efforts and threatened the score distribution in the last halves.

The Aurora contest was nipand-tuck all the way. Steady marksmanship in the first quarter resulted in the Maroons' slight edge, 23-21. The Spartans, paced by center Gene Downing, bounded back with 24 points to the Maroons’ 20 making the half-time tally, 45-43.

Hubbard stops Aurora

Fred Hubbard started the second half for UC and kept Downing under complete control. The Maroons kept pace with Aurora throughout the third quarter, and when the quarter ended, the Maroons were one point behind.

In the final period, the Maroons forged ahead by a point or two several times only to lose the lead to the avenging Spartans.

Only in the last minute of play when Smith and Mann fouled-out

St. Louis drowns Maroon splashers

Maroon swimmers were washed and hung up to dry by the Siwashers of St. Louis in Bartlett Pool last Friday. Only individual win ner for Chicago was Fance Felker in the 200 yard breast stroke as the Maroons lost 61-23. The team of Bob Geidt, Roy Porterfield and Felker won the 330 yard medley relay.

The swimmers finally found a diver in Bob Herndon, a trampoline specialist, who has been practicing his technique for future matches.

and the free-throws for these fouls were sunk that the game was won for Aurora. Downing led all scorers with 27 points with Smith's 22 and Lester’s 16 as runner-ups.

Elmhurst downs Maroons

In the Elmhurst contest last Friday, the Maroons’ lack of experience on other courts showed up in the first minutes of play. The Elmhurst squad jumped to an 8-0 lead before the visitors found the basket. The Maroons gained confidence in the second period and scored as many points as their opponents. Smith and Mann accounting for half of them. The half ended 42 for Elmhurst, 35 for UC.

The Maroons returned in the second half with renewed vigor and began to gain on Elmhurst. Elmhurst steadily pulled ahead in the last period and won 90-71. Pat Lira. Elmhurst center, scored 28 points. Lonergan led the Maroons with 18 while Smith and Mann tallied 16 each.

SPORTS EVENTS THIS WEEK

Today — JV Track. Schurz H.S., 3:30, Field-House.

JV Basketball. Luther North, 3:30, Bartlett Gym.

Tomorrow — Fencing. Wayne and Northwestern, 1:30, Bartlett Gym.

Wrestling. Marquette, 2:00, Bartlett Gym. •

Westling. Wisconsin Ext., 8:00, Bartlett Gym.

Thursday—JV Track. Lane Tech H.S., 3:30, Bartlett Gym.

Nelson Nargren, basketball coach

Track team loses; firstdefeatofyear by Justin Johnson

Marquette University gave the varsity track team a battle last Saturday in a dual meet at the Fieldhouse. When the final tape had been breasted, the Maroon speedsters were on the short end of a 56-48 score. Five meet records were broken as Chicago suffered its first defeat in three starts.

The JV team lost to a strong Wendell Phillips squad but nosed out Tilden Tech to place second in a triangular meet at the Fieldhouse last Friday.

The final score was Phillips 52, Maroons 30. Tilden 25.

Contest moral victory

Several track followers commented after the varsity meet at the Fieldhouse that the contest was a moral victory for Chicago.

An examination of individual performances supports this argument.

Ken Stapley ran a sparkling 1:57.1 to win the half-time, smashing one record, and UC’s mile relay team of Stapley, Phil Wyatt, Lowell Hawkinson and George Mc Cormick breezed through in

3^ie ^/^ttm

PHOTOGRAPHERS

MIDWAY 3-4433

Luther South downs JV basketbailers by one point, 45-44

JV Basketbailers were evidentally following the example set by the varsity last week.

After an extremely tight game with Luther South the

Maroons wound up on the short end of the score by only one point, losing 46-45, last Monday in Bartlett Gym.

Coach Stampf described the game: “We were outfought and outplayed by a more determined team. That sums it up.”

Bulletin

Yesterday afternoon Maroon trackmen defeated Wilson Jr. College 69,/z-34'/2 in the Fieldhouse. The Maroons were short-handed because Ted Haydon's top men were taking a slight respite to unlimber for the Michigan A.A.U. meet tomorrow. High scorer for the meet was Dan Trifone with 13 points; Poul Babtist followed with 10’/2.

3:29 to set another mark. Mc Cormick had earlier won the 440 in 51.3 seconds.

Loomis wins hurdles

Captain Walt Deike once again captured the two-mile with Jim Flynn behind him in second place. Frank Loomis^ skimmed the lowhurdles in the very fast time of :08.0 to continue his winning streak through four meets in this event. Tom Wilson aided the Maroon cause with one of his best vaulting performances to gain a first place tie at 11'6".

In the JV meet Mike Chernoff leapt 11'6" to win the pole-vault with his best jump of the season. Charlie Youse was the only other Chicago winner, taking the shotput.

1171 EAST 55th STREET

The “Flying Mites,” the Junior Juniors won their first game of the year, defeating the Frosh Soph team from Luther South, 40 26.

Foiled again— III. downs fencers

Fencers from the University of Illinois clobbered the Maroons 23-4 Wednesday afternoon in the Bartlett Gym meet.

Chicago made its best showing in the epee matches as John Lyon and Ted Small each won a single bout. Other UC wins were chalked up by sabre-fencer Dave Karcher and foil-man Ernie Dunston.

Phi Psi eagers lead intra-murals

As intramural basketball enters its fifth week. John Jane’s expert team from Phi Kappa Psi is leading the Fraternity league with an undefeated record of five wins. Alpha Kappa leads the divisions with 4-0 while Beecher and Snell follow with 3 wins against 1 loss each. Coulter House leads the

college with a 4-1 record.

RECORDS

10" LP 79c

12" LP 98c & $1.89 78 RPM 8 for $1.00 45 RPM Vi price

Hermans

935 E. 55th St. Open Thurs., Til 9

HOW THE STARS

GOT STARTED

"WHEN I CHANGED TO CAMELS, I FOUND I WAS ENJOYING SMOKING MORE THAN EVER 1 CAMELS HAVE A WONDERFUL

FLAVOR...ANO JUST THE RIGHT MILDNESS f'

MAUREEN O'HARA says:

“My first stage appearance was at age 5 —between acts in a school play —reading a poem. I've literally lived acting ever since! First, in clubs, churches, amateur theatricals.

I was on the radio at 12; in the Abbey Theatre at 14 — had I my first screen test at 17. J Acting is hard work — /

but I love it!” / Camels

^Mi/cfoess i

Qrf Fh VOf^

Make the 30-day Camel Mildness Test. Smoke only Camels for 30 days. See for yourself why Camels' cool mildness and rich flavor agree with more people than any other cigarette! START SMOKING CAMELS YOURSELF!

agree with mote people

THAN ANY OTHER CIGARETTE! February 5, 1954

Falconetti m 'Jeanne D'Arc'

well.

Fred Winsberg

BU 8-0876

1457 E. 57th St.

WHY TAKE NOTES

The Old-Fashioned Way

Contoura Way Chicago 37, Illinois

5802 Ellis Avenue

Come in at your earliest convenience and look over the complete line of Contoura and Constat Equipment. This new and cheap method of taking pages and pages of notes, even from books, will be gladly demonstrated.

Units are now available either for SALE or RENTAL

Investigate the Easy, Simple Time-Saving

Portraits by

LOUISE BARKER

Photographer

Doc Film to show ‘masterpiece’ series

by F. G. Ternenyi

Tonight the film study group of the Documentary Film Group will present its second series of the quarter: “Three Masterpieces of the Cinema.” Unlike most Doc Film series, which are organized around some historical or analytic theme, the purpose of the present series is to give a wide audience the chance to $ee certain important films that are shown at rare

intervals in this country. The series includes October (Ten Days That Shook the World) by Sergei Eisenstein, Greed, directed by E. von Stroheim, and The Passion of Joan of Arc by Carl T. Dreyer.

It is interesting to note that both October and The Passion of Joan of Arc achieve a level of dramatic intensity that has been unequaled in cinema history through a profound understanding of the relationship between the form of the film and the

Choir performs banal Stravinsky mass soloists, conductor do commendable job

Richard Vikstrom conducted his UC Choir, members of the Chicago Symphony, and various soloists in a performance of old and new sacred music at Rockefeller chapel last Friday night. The works of composers which were performed ranged in time from Giovanni Gabrieli and William Byrd to Igor Stravinsky and Lili Boulanger.

Gabrieli’s In ecclesiis benedicte domino is a bold and noble work which utilizes the stunning contrast between brass choir and voice choir to great effect. It was performed with

somewhat less precision than is desirable, but this was a minor distraction, and easily excused on the grounds that the performers were still cold.

Byrd’s mass in four voices may well be an excellent exercise in four parts writing, but its length and lack of real rhythmic or harmonic interest make it thoroughly monotonous. By the time it was performed the group had gained enough composure to do an accurate job.

After the intermission came Stravinsky’s Mass for a Mixed Chorus and Double Wind Quintet. Listening to Stravinsky’s newer output is a distressing experience, for the man who contends that emotion is alien to music nas succeeded in putting this theory into practice. Stravinsky was a great composer when he worked in the tradition of 19th century Russian music — folk melodies, the brilliant orchestration of Rimsky—and incorporated the new ideas of primitivism and dissonance popular in France.

But this particular example of neo-classicism — more properly, its objectivity of expression, strikes me as an affectation. It contains no more in the way of constructive wizardry than Petrushka, and is by comparison, barren of human qualities. Perhaps the forms which served his original success are no longer pregnant, but returning to the fourteenth cenutry is equally sterile. In any case the work was far from being dull, and there is a certain amount of intellecjual pleasure derived from the contrapuntal gymnastics which testify to the composer’s erudition. The performance, with the exception of a bad start on the part of the winds, was excellent. Particularly praiseworthy was the chanting of the Credo by the voices.

Lili Boulanger’s arrangement of the twenty-fourth psalm served as an excellent contrast to the mass, for here the composer fashioned a moving work with a bare minimum of musical devices, but the inspiration is apparent.

It would not be fitting to single out any of the soloists. They all sang well. In none of the works was conspicuous virtuosity called for, and part of their success consisted in being unobtrusive. Judging by the aggregate of sounds that one heard from this invisible group, conductor Vikstrom did his job

Tickets available for Synge drama

Tickets are now available for “Playboy of the Western World,” University Theatre’s February production. Performances will be given the 19th, 20th and 21st only. Tickets for all performances may be obtained at the Reynolds Club desk. John M. Synge, the author of the play, has been called the creator of Irish drama. He began his career in Paris, and only later, under the influence of W. B. Yeats, returned to his native land and became interested in the development of Irish literature. In 1904 he joined the Abby Theatre, and "Playboy of the Western World” was written the year after.

The play deals with a half-idiot kept down by a tyrannical father, who eventually strikes out, and then flies in horror under the impression he has committed parricide. He flies to a primitive community in the west, where outlaws are admired. Here he revels in his glory until a visitor comes to the inn at which he is staying

UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO BOOKSTORE

New 'Review

subject matter.

October depends on the rapid pace, realistic detail, and sense of wit and metaphor that Eisenstein is noted for. The film deals with the chaotic events that followed the establishment of the Provisional Government in 1917— the flight of Kerensky, the attack on the Winter Palace, and the triumph of the Bolsheviks.

The Passion of Joan of Arc reveals an intense, mystical experience through the use of hypnotic, static images of great beauty, flawlessly composed, balanced in linear design and distribution of masses.

Erich von Stroheim’s films have been the center of controversy through his daring use of unusual sociological and psychological subject matter and their extreme length. Greed had the dimensions of a Comedie Humaine, but drascoming soon

The next issue of the Chicago Review will be published on February 18. It will be the largest number to date. Two recent translations of Marianne Moore, an article by David Riesman, and some short poems of Isabel Gardner will be among the more important contributions included.

Last year the Review was reinstated after seven years of failure. The Review has received favorable comment from Isabel Gardner of Poetry Magazine.

The circulation of the Review has reached three thousand, and it is distributed to fifty-four for-, eign countries.

The NEW American Library will publish selections from the Review in a New World Writing edition. Oscar Williams will also include pieces from the magazine in his next anthology.

The Review will be sold on campus stands.

tic revisions destroyed that conception. Even in this form it has been considered Stroheim’s masterpiece.

UC Musical Society presents first concert program of year

Tomorrow at 8 p.m. in Ida Noyes Library, the University of Chicago Musical Society will present its first program of the year. The group was founded in the autumn of 1952 to accommodate performers who have insufficient time to participate in the larger campus musical groups. Its programs have provided informal concert performances in which, according to a MAROON reviewer, “the obvious spirit of the performers, and the active responsiveness of the audience were sufficient to bring about a rewarding musical experience.”

Tomorrow’s program will include an oboe sonata by Handel, Mozart’s Adagio and Rondo for violin, six songs by Poulenc, and a group of short selections for bassoon by Swift and by Leland Smith, a member of the faculty of the music department, who organized this program. The performers will include Robert Goldstein, oboe; Burton Fine, violin; Patricia Peterson, soprano; Zunia Henry, piano; and Smith, piano and bassoon.

The Musical Society hopes to present a wide variety of chamber works throughout the coming year. As it did last year, it will encourage musicians to form string quartets, wind ensembles, and vocal groups and to prepare solo performances. Last year, in addition to its regular activities, it presented premiers of several works by composers from the University community. A string quartet, organized for the Musical Society was scheduled to perform on WFMT while another performer has been presenting a regular program of early music on that station.

This year, according to Smith,

Leland Smith

the society has suffered from a lack of student organizers. This program was organized, after considerable difficulty, with only insignificant help from students. Any one interested in the organization of the society or in performing should contact Smith at tomorrow’s program.

As usual, everyone is invited and there is no admission charge.

International House Movie Program

Manday, Febuary 8—MARRIAGE OF FIGARO (German! Assembly Hall, 8:00 P.M. Admission 50c.

Thusdoy, February 11—NUMBER 13 RUE MADELEINE (American) East Lounge, 7:00 P.M. and 9:00 P.M. Admission 35c.

YOUNG REPUBLICAN CLUB

Mid-Winter Organization Meeting

February 10

Wednesday

7:30 P.M Coffee Will be Served

Clearance Sale

at

Hermans

935 E 55th st.

Open thurs. til 9

a Htt MHMMMi Hiii^^

t

 Page 8

THE CHICAGO MAROON February 5, 1954

Calendar

Friday, February 5

The finalists in the Miss UC contest wijl be Introduced at a Coke Dance in the Reynolds Club South lounge at 3:30 p.m. Music, dancing, refreshments. Admission free.

A debate on the Bricker Amendment between Kenneth Sears, professor of law, and Henry Brandt, attorney, will be sponsored by the Law Students Club at 3:30 p.m. in Law North.

“October” (Ten Days That Shook the World) will open the new Doc Fi'm Study Group series, “Three Film Masterpieces,” in Social Sciences 122 at 7:15 and S:30 p.m. Series ticket $1.

Another Whing Ding sponsored by the UC Folklore Society will take place In Ida Noyes at 7:30 p.m. Members free- non-members 25 cents

The Social Dance Club will offer informal dancing in Ida Noyes Theatre from 7:30 to 10 p.m. for any student with 1 cent to pay the admission fee.

Hillel Fireside. The Sabbath Service at 7:45 p.m will be followed with a talk on “Religion and Social Policy” by Donald Meiklejohn, associate professor of philosophy, at 8:30 p.m. Hillel Foundation, 5715 Woodlawn.

Saturday, February 6

The UC Musical Society will present a program in Ida Noyes Library at 8 p.m featuring Burton Fine, violin; Robert Goldstein, oboe, and Patricia Peterson, soprano. No admission

Zeta Beta Tau, 5749 Woodlawn, will hold an open house from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. Dancing and refreshments.

Sunday, February 7

Rockefeller Chapel Service. The Very Reverend James A. Pike, dean of the Cathedral of St. John the Divine, New York City, will preach on “Selfcriticism and Self-acceptance." 11 a.m.

Green Hall Open House. 3 to 5 p.m.

Carillon recital by James R. Lawson in Rockefeller Chapel at 4 p.m.

UC Glee Club Rehearsal in Blaine Hall from 4 to 5:30 p.m.

Porter Foundation. Ben Richardson, director of Beacon House will speak on “What is most important for me In Christianity” in International House Room A at 7:30 p.m. Refreshments will be served.

Monday, February 8

The Walgreen Foundation lecture series, “Business and Society,” will continue with Meyer Kestnbaum discussing “Business and the Community” in Social Sciences 122 at 4:30 p.m.

“Marriage of Figaro,’’ a German film, will be shown In International House Assembly Hall at 8 p.m. Admission 50 cents.

Tuesday, February 9

The Inter-Varsity Christian Fellowship will hold a luncheon meeting from 12:30 to 1:20 on the third floor of Ida Noyes Hally. Dr. Culver, Instructor at Trinity Seminary, will discuss "In what sense does the Bible claim to come from God?”

Chester Bowles, former U. S. Ambassador to India, will present a talk on “United States Foreign Policy in India and Asia” In Mandel Hall at 4 p.m. This lecture Is sponsored by the College and the Center for the Study of American Foreign Policy.”

Concert Band rehearsal In Sunny Gym, 5823 Kenwood, at 8 p.m.

Wednesday, February 10

Pre-Med meeting in Abbott 133 from

4 to 5 p.m. Dr. Clarence Monroe will talk and show slides on plastic surgery.

Carillon recital by James R. Lawson In Rockefeller Chapel at 4:30 p.m.

“Economics and Politics” will be discussed by Meyer Kestnbaum In the Walgreen Foundation series on “Business and Society.” Social Sciences 122 at 4:30 p.m.

The Young Republican Club will hold an organizational meeting In the East lounge of Ida Noyes at 7:30 p.m. Refreshments.

The Camera Club will meet in Eckhart 202 at 7:30 p.m.

The Country Dancers will meet In Ida Noyes Cloister Club at 7:45 p.m. Beginners welcome. Please wear tennis shoes.

“Which Way to Peace?”, a discussion series sponsored by the educational committee of International House, will begin with thg. showing of the film, “A Time for Greatness,” after which Robert Plckus of the American Friends Service Committee, will lead a discussion. International House East lounge at 8 p.m.

“The Dead Sea Scrolls” will be the subject of a public lecture by Ralph Marcus. professor in the Oriental Institute. Hillel Foundation, 5715 Woodlawn, at 8 p.m.

Thursday, February 11

Sailing Club shore school. Columbia Yacht Club at 7:30 p.m.

“No. 13 Rue Madeline,” a U. S. film, will be shown in International House East lounge at 7 and 9 p.m. Admission 35 cents.

F.W Twr*C t U U# *^ .•*•*• I Lot r LOWt U. THOMAS.

JOHN JAY — America's World Famous Ooco mentary Photographer, lecturer and Author personally presents his greatest motion picture in gorgeous color . . • •

Cc Malca Ae o* Ska!

10 Year# in Mi# Making — W 000 miles vf adventure •• ) Centinenb

Wednesday — February 3 — 8:15 P.M.

Thorne Hall — Chicago Ave. fir the Lake

Admission: $1.50 (tax incl.) Sponsored by: American Youth Hostel*

Classified Ads

Fo; Sale

AM-FM Zenith 1947 radio. $20. Call HY 3-4568.

De Soto sedan, 1948, good condition, $60. See Hudgins, 1326 E. 57th, second floor, after 6 p.m.

9x12 Green rug, cheap. Call MI 3-1334.

Spartan AM-FM radio, year old, good condition, $35. Call BU 8-3837 evenings.

Tuxedo, size 38 regular, worn three times. Reasonable. HY 3-0455.

Baby butler, safest, most economical baby feeding unit. Feldman, DO 3-1322. German skis and ski shoes, excellent condition, low price. International House, Room 567.

41-piece pottery set, used only four months. % original cost. Purchased Marshall Fields. Burbach, NO 7-6786.

Maple furniture, China, glass, etc. Leaving city. For Information call weekdays, CE 6-6372; evenings FA 4-8710.

Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co. says...

T^OR more than thirty years we have used research day in and day out learning about tobaccos and cigarettes in the public’s interest.

Continuously we and our consultants have analyzed, experimented with and smoked all kinds of tobaccos... especially Southern Bright, Burley, Maryland and Turkish cigarette tobaccos.

Our own cigarettes and competitive brands have been submitted to the most exacting scientific scrutiny including thousands of analyses of millions of pounds of tobaccos.

From all these thousands of analyses, and other findings reported in the leading technical journals, our Research Department has found no reason to believe that the isolation and elimination of any element native to cigarette tobaccos today would improve smoking.

For four years we have maintained in the smoker’s interest an intensified larger scale diversified research program. A half-million dollar 30-ton machine, the world’s most powerful source of high voltage electrons, designed solely for our use has tested tens of thousands of cigarettes. This program has already given to us direct and significant information of benefit to the smoking public.

Our consultants include Arthur D. Little, Inc. of Cambridge, Massachusetts, “one of the largest and most reputable industrial research organizations in the country” (From Business Week Magazine) and eminent scientists from leading universities.

Today the public can confidently choose from a variety of brands —by far the best cigarettes ever made by the tobacco industry.

if TT^*^

w

Many scientists within our laboratories are analyzing cigarette tobaccos every day

^^Jl SSA

Cprrigh< me boom Mm* Tomcoo Co*)

3 Brands

Tested and Approved by 30 Years of Scientific Tobacco Research

4 Rooms furniture, new Zenith television, dishes. Leaving town. Rooms for rent if desired. FA 4-3565.

TV as is $50. Call between 11-2, FA 4-3290.

For Rent

Large front room, newly decorated. In home of faculty member. Near campus. Call FA 4-3041.

Bachelor’s apartment, private entrance, newly furnished, no cooking facilities, i block from University, $65 month. HY 3-1134.

Basement room with private bath, $7 a week. 5703 Maryland. Call DO 3-3710.

Space for male sharing 5-room apartment. Hi-fi. Non-authoritarlan milieu. $25 month. 6347 Marvanld, FA 4-0525.

Share 5-room apartment (Hyde Park Blvd.) with 1 or 2 girls. 2 bedrooms, 2 baths, furnished, good transportation, reasonable. KE 8-2126.

Services

Typing work wanted. Call Mrs. Pannabecker, KE 6-8689, or see Pannabecker, Zoology, Rm. 31-A.

Lessons in Chinese, classic and vernacular. Native teacher (ex-U. S. Army Instructor). NO 7-6716.

Portraits my specialty. All other photography. Photos legible in all languages I Inexpensive. Joe Wolf, ES 5-1615.

Mathematics, special intsruction to fit your mathematical needs. Individual or group sessions at our Loop office or location of your choice. Soglin Associates, ST 2-6727.

Creative ID's, anything else. Student and Faculty discounts — contact Kluckhohn, c/o MAROON or c/o Reynolds desk.

Wanted

M. G. Sports car. Good condition. Paul Wenger, 5747 University Ave., PL 2-9718.

Trumpet player, seeking position In dance band. Four years professional experience. Sheldon Litt, MI 3-0800.

Personals

Hitchcock thanks the "dolls” who made our huge and unprecedented success possible. We love you!

Opus Dei invites faculty to lecture by

author Daniel Sargeant "As Dante Said,” Thursday, Feb. 10th, 8 p.m. 5544 Woodlawn.

Want OMP offered this summer? Fin out petition in Dean Davey's office before March 1st.

Lost

One notebook. Social Sciences 2. Please return to Thesharls, 547 B-J.

One and Two-Room

Furnished Kitchenette

APARTMENTS

nicely furnished; clean, quiet; electric refrigeration; newly decorated; well maintained building.

ALSO SLEEPING ROOMS

6019-21 South Dorchester Ave.

on Midway

near all transportation ring manager's bell