Kimpton crowns Diane Sills at IF Ball

Diane Sills was crowned Queen of the 30th Interfraternity Ball by Chancellor Kimpton Wednesday night at the Shoreland hotel.

The more than 250 fraternity men and guests were honored by the presence of Chancellor Lawrence A. Kimpton, Dean Robert M. Strozier, Dean William Scott, and Arthur Kiendl, head of housing, and their wives.

Left: Chancellor Kimpton crowns Inter-Fraternity queen, Diane Sills, at Wednesday night’s I-F ball.

University of Chicago, November 27f 1954

People must live together or be destroyed: Toynbee

by David Schlessinger

Our generation, for the first time in history, is faced with an extreme choice: the peoples of the world must learn to live together, or face destruction of civilization. “We must learn to understand each other and therefore, must realize the history of the human race as a whole.” •

So said Arnold J. Toynbee, research professor of international history at the London School of Economics, to a crowd which filled the aisles of Mandel hall Wednesday for his

lecture, “World unity and world history.”

Toynbee, sponsored by the committee on social thought, warned that our only alternative to a third world war is to buy

photo by Tipton Arnold Toynbee

time for a long period of “anxiety and nervousness” during which peoples of a divided world can gain mutual confidence, growing together into one family.

Care demanded

“We have had a long period of Hme to grow different,” he stated. “We must be careful or we may have very little time to grow together Living together for the first time as one family, we cannot destroy one another withcut destroying ourselves."

The west today has a special responsibility in the process of developing world understanding, claimed the white-haired, but youthful British historian. During the last four hundred ^ears, “the whole human race has gradually been roped into a Western fold. Even the other side of the Iron Curtain has imported communism from the West."

Historians have job

He said, in effect, that we have brought about the present difficult situation of world civilizations; and it is up to us to save those civilizations from annihilation.

“To understand each other, we must know each other’s histories and the unity of the two We must be world-minded The cooperation of people in all walks of life is necessary to achieve this great psychological revolution,” Toynebee stated. He declared that this is a job for Western historians.

Eyes on West

“Western scholarship can establish this view for people since today it is possible to coordinate the work of archaeologists, anthropologists, those who study pre-history, and all the other present day specialists World unity will be the Western gift to the human race."

The poised Toynbee, who charmed his audience into frequent demonstrations of appreciation, stated that this opportunity to develop the study of history as a world unity will be taken advantage of. “We will take the opportunity not only because the human mihd has a disinterested

A spokesman for Beta Theta The queen will reign over all interfraternity events for the coming school year, the largest of which is the IF sing, which is held at the end of the spring quarter.

The Ball, sponsored by the IF council, was held at the Shoreland

pnotos by Grossman

Above: The queen and her court (I. to r.)—Jeanine Johnson, Jane Bitterman, Mary Spiegel, Lyn Carter, Diane Sills, Rosemary Galli, Jane Podolack, and Ann Traill.

desire to increase its knowledge but also because the tense situation today demands a solution of the problem of division.”

History supports idea

Toynbee argued with an historical analysis that his idea of the unity of world history is accurate. The idea is by no means new;

See ‘Toynbee,’ page 6

Woodworth

ISL'ers elected to court

Four ISL members were elected to the Student-Faculty Administration court at last Tuesday’s Student Government

meeting.

Louis Schaefer and Roger Woodworth were elected to two-year terms. Clive Gray and Harold Ward were elected to one UCemerges into light: Kimpton

Chancellor Lawrence A. Kimpton presented his annual report on the state of the University on Tuesday, before the annual meeting of the University senate.

Kimpton said in his speech that the University has come through a long, dark tunnel, and is now beginning to see the light at the other end: the faculty is stronger than ever, despite reorganization in undergraduate curriculum; enrollment is up; the budget is balanced; and the - neighborhoop is rapidly undergoing improvement.

Pi, sponsor of the queen,

hotel rather than at one of the downtown hotels to reduce the cost of the ball and to make it more convenient to those attending. a fraternity spokesman said.

Miss Sills and the other candidates were introduced to those

NSA region meets debates, sef plan by Diana Epstel^ . pro v ft

Educational Practices code were the major issues discussed by some 55 representatives of eleven member colleges at the regional National Student association conference held at the University of Illinois last weekend.

On the issue of Russian exchange, the delegates passed a

Willard Binyon professor, dies

Willard P. Binyon, associate professor of humanities in the college, died November 23 in Michael Reese Hospital, after a month’s illness following a coronary thrombosis. Funeral services were held on November 26 in Bond Chapel.

Binyon had been on the faculty of the University since 1943. He previously taught at Lewis Institute. He was 50 years old.

Survivors are his wife, Anne; two daughters, Mrs. Judith Farnell of England, and Mrs. Paula Upshaw of Tuscaloosa, Alabama; and a son, Michael, a student at Colorado A & M College in Fort Collins, Colorado.

Binyon took his bachelor of science degree at Lewis Institute in 1924, his master of arts at the University of Chicago in 1935, and his doctor of philosophy at the University of Chicago in 1947.

Gray among

year terms, defeating Nina Byers and Jerry Zisook. Woodworth was chosen chief justice, defeating Ward and Dan Feldman, incumbent member of the court.

It was announced that Bill Seltzer (ISL) has been appointed to fill the College vacancy left by Al Fortier. Vacancies now exist in the social sciences and humanities divisions and the 1 a w school, created by election of SFA court members from these schools, and in the medical school. Applications are now being accepted for these seats.

The assembly also passed a bill reiestablishing the Educational Survey commission. Applications for the chairmanship of this commission are now being accepted, as are applications for the chairmanship -of the Commission on the University Neighborhood.

Applicants should contact Bruce Mac Lachlan, DO 3-4480.

some of her duties as queen.

attending the ball by George Stone, IF president. The new queen lives in Decatur, Illinois, when not in school. Miss Sills, a new student in the College, has expressed an interest in psychology.

resolution, prepared by the NSA regional international affairs commission, declaring their (the member schools’) willingness “to participate ... in an exchange of students with any nation including Iron Curtain countries, provided that such an exchange meets the conditions laid down in the declaration of exchange of the seventh USNSA congress "

Originally the word “students’* in the declaration was modified by “legitimate.” Those wanting the qualification deleted argued that it was redundant and an unnecessary inclusion which would be wrongly interpreted.

The reason for the modifier, advocates explained, was to insure that the age of the Russian representatives would be equivalent to the age of an “average American student,” therefore creating a situation from which both parties to the exchange would benefit by exchanging “student” views.

Another resolution, unanimously recommended by the international affairs commission, recommended investigation of proposals for student government support of a visit of Russian student editors to the United States, for the purpose of joining in the issuance of an invitation to these editors.

The longest floor debate at the plenary session concerned a Fair Educational Practices code. Majority and minority resolutions were submitted by the educational affairs commission. The majority report, which was adopted, was a reaffirmation of the FEPC position taken at the 7th USNSA national conference held at Ames last August.

The adopted resolution, stating that the “Illinois region of USNSA stands unalterably opposed to all forms of discrimination in education which are based on race, religion, national origin, or sex,” is a reiteration of NSA’s past policies and declarations, with the exception of the addition of the word “sex” to the enumeration of discriminations. The educational commission’s minority report was a specific codification of action to be adopted by member schools.

Participation in a national Academic Freedom week, a suggestion of the student affairs commission, was unanimously favored by the assembly. A regional sub-commission was appointed to coordinate information

See ‘NSA,’ page 4 THE

CHICAGO MAROON

November 27, 1954

1908 UC described by English visitor

Maroon visits a pajama party

Quads club throws coed pajama party

shirts and nighties rule for night

by Alan Charlens

Have you ever wondered what an Englishman of the 1900’s might have thought of the University of Chicago? And have you ever wondered what changes have taken place since then?

In the November and December issues of The New Phytologist, Vol. VII, Numbers 9 and 10, 1908, there appeared an article voicing the views of an Englishman concerning “Botany

at Chicago University.” Following are some excerpts from that article accompanied by remarks by Dr. C. E. Olmsted, the . chairman of the botany department. The excerpts follow in bold face.

To dream that one dwells in marble halls becomes a reality at Chicago University, which provides each of the great branches of learning with a spacious and handsome building on the “campus” or great stretch of wooded land it has acquired on the south side of the city. Overlooking the English Quadrangle and in sight of the Mitchell Tower, supposed to be to the Chicagoan what Magdalen Tower is to the Oxonian, stands the glass crowned building devoted to the Botanical Department — admittedly one of the strongest in the Science Faculty.

In regard to the glass crowned old Botany building, the chairman pointed out that the greenhouse on its top hasn't been used for many years, except for storage.

You may sit on the stairs and discuss alternation of generations or anything else with a professor, but you must jump up if anyone wants to pass, and not look as if it were inconsiderate for him to choose that particular moment, for the general atmosphere is that expresed by the moral little mottoes seen tucked into the nameplate of a research room door, or framed on an office wall, “Keep Smiling” and “Don’t

Buildings and Grounds gives University annual face-lifting

by Ed Regal

Buildings and Grounds department (B&G) is in the process of repairing and rehabilitating many buildings in and around the campus.

W. R. Zelner, superintendent of B&G, said that the department has been receiving cuts in its budget each year since 1948. Although these cuts impair its progress somewhat, this also gives the department reason to find new and less expensive ways of doing things. Ingenuity has been a great help, he claimed.

First year students will not have noticed some of these improvements that have been made. Emergency lighting systems in some of the older buildings, such

COMO

PIZZERIA

1520 E. 55th St.

Golden Brown Southern Fried Chicken Delivered $1.00

Delivery Anywhere

FA 4-5525

SAVE TIME — SAVE MONEY

N & R Bonded Movers — olso — New and Used Furniture

Ml 3-4196 1510 E. 55th

Worry.”

Dr. Lawrence Bogorad, a member of the Botany Staff, said that now only the students sit on the stairs, perhaps because now it is more hazardous? "not to reflect on the janitorial service, which is excellent.”

A most agreeable feature of the life of the Department is the weekly Club Meeting, open to all botanists, and preceded by tea, served with lemon instead of milk, and iced when the shade temperature is above 90 degrees F.

Concerning the Botany Club Meetings, they are still held every week, or sometimes twice monthly. The first half hour is informal, with coffee and tea before a lecture, which is given member, a graduate a visitor.

Relatively little is

by a staff student, or

said of anatomy, and fossils naturally receive very sketchy treatment, but the facts of morphology, embryology, and physiology are dealt with in detail, some lecturers encouraging intelligent questions, which certainly tend to elucidate matters.

Dr. Olmsted said that experimental research is pushed to the forefront now. Experimental botany was early stressed at the University of Chicago among American Universities and developed rapidly to require* expansion in 1930 into the present Barnes laboratory and extensive greenhouses on Ingleside.

as Harper, Social Sciences and Bartlett, have been installed. These systems have also been scheduled for Ryerson, Walker museum, Zoology, Botany, Culver, and Anatomy.

Exterior building repairs come north, and south sides of the fieldhouse a face lifting. Social Sciences and Sunny gym have also had their stone faces worked over. “Panic” hardware, which will opti if someone falls against it, has been installed in Cobb, Harper and Blaine, and is scheduled for Culver, Botany, Anatomy, and Zoology.

Toilet facilities in the Anatomy and Zoology basements have been modernized. Acoustical treatment has been given to Bartlett swimming pool, and the lighting has been modernized.

(office fl Ousc

GOOD FOOD...

Don't Let Tight Budget Hold You Bock 7 MONTHS TO PAY NO INTEREST CHARGES LIBERAL GUARANTEE

CEMUETLICHKEIT

TZESERA&Tro^s.- hyoepark 5-4500 f Xr^TTi Rl Fjrv V^^

See Mr. Gerson

We carry • complete line of wines, liquors and imports

I

Molner and Danny Kunitz.

Tellers of story at the

The Maroon’s daring reporter and photographer, Ronnie Grossman, who found it neceasary to don his own pajamas before being admitted to the party, shown as photographed by another rejxirter after a busy night. All this shows that

photo by Grossman

Winners of the award for the best night caps, Ed Maupin and Sue Perkins, are shown together with Mike Rogers and Monica Kozasa. Other award winners not pictured were Sylvia Hedley and Bill Secklinger, who wore the costumes most likely to keep their dates awake, and Jerry Chutkow and Millicent Rupp who were judged as wearing the costumes most likely to put their dates asleep. Altogether about 15 Quadranglers and their dates attended the party and “snuggled together” in f/ont of the roaring fire in the living room of the Phi Gainma Delta fraternity house.

photo by Grossman

Last Saturday night, the Maroon visited a mixed pajama party sponsored by the Quadrangler club for the Quad’s and their dates. Shown gathered around a stuffed monkey (of mystical significance) are, from left to right, in the bottom row: Smokey Garcia and Sharon Smith; in the top row: Vance Dillingham, Marie Schroer, Betty F e r r a r and Gene Ferrari.

photo by Grossman the best bed-time party were Joan

photo by Burbach Grossman

the Maroon, like Life magazine, also can go to a pajama party.

A TYPEWRITER OF YOUR OWN FOR CHRISTMAS?

Ml 3-0524

QET IT NOW!

NEW PORTABLES RECONDITIONED PORTABLES RECONDITIONED STANDARDS

Bookstore

5802 Ellis Avenue November 27, 1954

the chicago maroon

Page 3

Menn competition offers cash to creative writers

Call Solomon case reargument; court unanimous in decision

Competition for the Olga and Paul Menn foundation awards has been announced for the academic year 1954-55. All UC students between 20 and 26 years old who are candidates for a bachelor’s degree, or who are at least one year away from completing requirements for a master’s degree, are eligible

to compete.

The Menn foundation offers a first prize of $1,000 and a second prize of $500 in each of the following categories: an original short story or novel, an original play of one or more acts, and an original musical composition. Manuscripts must be submitted to the office of the dean of students, Administration 201, not later than April 4. Awards will be announced before the end of the spring quarter.

All eligible students are invited to submit manuscripts in the three fields represented in this competition. Entries must be typewritten, and musical compositions

must be in ink. Further information is available at the humanities office, Lexington 1G.

Since the establishment of the Menn foundation awards in 1949, f>l manuscripts have been submitted. In last year's competition, there were only six entries, and the judges decided unanimously that no award should be made.

Russell Thomas, chairman of the faculty committee which administers the competition, feels that the response to date has been advertised by means of posters, announcements in the Maroon, and by the teachers of courses most likely to reach interested students. He pointed out that the awards are among the most generous offered by any college in the country for creative work.

The faculty committee consists of Grosvenor Cooper, Reuel Denney. Arthur Friedman, Gwin Kolb, Dean Robert Streeter, and Thomas. The committee is in charge of accepting and passing on the eligibility of entries, selecting judges, advertising the competition, and

Plan for holiday Christmas center

International students from the local schools, as well as interested American students, are invited to the holiday center for international students December 10 to January 1.

The center, located at 59 East Monroe in the YWCA building, will include a 4 p.m. tea every day, and arrangements for tours of Chicago and visits to American homes for Christmas. The center

offers a friendly, informal atmosphere for meeting other students, commented Dorothy Powell, metropolitan student executive of the YWCA, one of the sponsoring organizations.

Janine Lowell

ou Lde

Studio

1457 East 57th St.

announcing the decisions of the judges.

The judges in the past have all been writers and critics of national standing and reputation, chosen from outside the University faculty.

Exhibit photo prints for club competition

There will be a public exhibit of photographic prints in the Lexington art gallery Monday through Saturday. These prints will be the entries in the quarterly black and white print competition of the UC Camera club. Official judging will take place on Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. The public is invited to the gallery to observe the judging.

For those who would like to express their own opinions and make their own choices of the top prints in the exhibit, there will be ballots for the public from Monday through Wednesday. These opinions will then be compared with the opinions of the official judges.

The competition is open only to those who have paid Camera club dues. All entries should be mounted for salon presentation and must be submitted today at the photographic department of the Bookstore.

Taken with a Kodak 35 camera on Plus X film using existing light. The print is on Varigan paper. Taken by Don C'happ, one of last year’s winners.

Miss

Collegiate by

Louise Borker

A Perfect Christmat Gift

A bright and spritely young college maid filled with charm and smiles; all captured in an exciting photograph to send home to family or to give campus pals.

Calf Today

For Aa Appointment

BU 8 0876

The Student-Faculty-Administration Court ordered “re-argument,” by unanimous concurrence, in the case of Solomon versus Student Government. The case will be considered again when the newly-elected court convenes.

The court convened Monday to consider the appeal of Fred Solomon to be seated as a Student Government representative from the medical school. Solomon received eight write in votes for an uncontested seat in the October SG election. The election and rules committee refused to seat Solomon because of the election law which states “Any writing on a ballot shall render the ballot void." The question considered by the court was whether the law prohibits write-in votes and if so, whether the law is constitutional.

Below, in order of their introduction before SFA court, are the cases as presented in the briefs of the plaintiff, Fred Solomon, and his counsel, Marcus Raskin, and the defense, Eli Stein and Clark Kucheman, who argued for SG.

The plaintiff claimed that to consider write-ins “writing on the ballot,” and therefore invalid, is “unconstitutional because it violates Article 7 of the Student Bill of Rights, which says that students have ‘the right to maintain a democratic student government.’ ” Further the brief stated, “A group is able to maintain a democratic student government only if it allows the electors the right of free choice.”

Raskin contended that “writing on a ballot” does not mean eliminating write-ins but rather “a voiding of only those ballots which would be defaced by the

O’Meara explains purpose of confessions; ‘Augustine’ tells story of typical conversion

by Frederick Karst

“No mere autobiography and no more confession of guilt” were the terms in which John J. O’Meara, professor of Latin at University College, Dublin, referred to St. Augustine’s “Confessions” before a near-capacity audience in Social Sciences 122 last week.

The purpose of the confessions, according to O’Meara, is to tell the story of a typical conversion, so much so, in fact, that th? conversions of other people are included in the “Confession.” He cited the conversions of Monica, Augustine’s mother, Olivius, his friend, and

Simson to speak on Bible pictures

An illustrated lecture on the Old Testament drawings of Marc Chagall, will be given by Otto G. von Simson, Wednesday evening at 8 p.m. at the B’nai B’rith Hillel foundation, 5715 Woodlawn. Admission to the lecture is without charge or ticket.

Von Simson is a professor in the committee on social thought and the department of art at UC, and the author of The Sacred Fortress and The Medieval Cathedral.

[ Time and The Yule-Tide i; ; Wait For No Manf\ n But YOU can do ALL your Christmas purchasing ' i II HERE! - '

B in ONE (1) Evening

. I

- Books for everyone, including Hie children

' Charmingly giftwrapped, gratis j

’ Mailed free anywhere in the U.S.

H SCHNEEMANN’S H

I RED DOOR BOOK SHOP j

I ; 132* E. 57th Street NOrmal 7-6111 1

“Book-Cellar to the University Community*9 i

Court Decision on Solomon vs. Student Government

The court orders the matter bound over for reargument Attention of the parties is directed specifically to the following questions: .

Assuming that the Student Government can constitutionally prohibit write-in votes, can the court entertain jurisdiction of questions as to whether the Government has prohibited write-in votes. Argument as to the construction of the Statute of Powers, section three, subsections A, H, and I is requested.

Argument is also requested on the following points: (1) Can the Court decide all questions raised in a case involving an issue within its jurisdiction; (2) Does the construction of the election law contended for by the Student Government render the law so misleading as to be itself a violation of the right to a democratic Student Government All concur

Fred Solomon

elector who did not indicate a choice.” A democratic election, he argued, is one in which “it is the choice of the voter which determines who shall represent him.” Student Government maintained that Solomon was not a candidate under the terms of the election law: he did not petition and he did not file his name with the E & R committee. Their argument that the law prohibits writeins was based on the law that “any writing on a ballot shall

Vicrorinus, the scholar.

O’Meara contended that Augustine included only the material which contributes to the story of a conversion. “He picks and chooses exactly as he pleases. He has a perfect right to do so,” O’Meara said.

He omitted entirely a period of several years. He neglects mentioning the name of his mistress, the name of his friend whose death he grieved, and the names of the neoplatonists whose works he read. Thus, the “Confessions” can not be regarded as a complete autobiography.

O’Meara stated that Augustine’s conversion consisted of both the conversion of the intelligence and

render the ballot void” and “in all cases the intention of the voter to indicate a clear choice among candidates shall be the determining criteria for the validity of a ballot ” Solomon cannot be considered a candidate, they claimed.

“A democratic election presupposes that the electorate be duly notifed who the candidates are,* they concluded. “A democratic election further presupposes that the candidates be notified of any opposing candidates.”

the conversion of the will. The conversion of his intelligence came about through his reading of the Platonists and of the Scriptures. . He was finally converted by reading a passage from St. Paul.

Identifies photo; carving of Ida

Last week’s mystery photo contest was won by Don Newman, a college student. When he was contacted by the Maroon, he said that he had been to a meeting of the Jazz club on the second floor of Ida Noyes the night before the Maroon came out.

The mystery photo was one of the small carvings at the top of the stairs in Ida Noyes. He said that he had not known any of the other mystery photos and would not have recognized this one, if he had not been there the night before.

There will be no mystery photo this week since the Maroon office is not open on Saturday and it would be difficult to determine the winner fairly. The contest will be resumed again next week 3 Arabian cusine J*

3 shishkabab

lithe mecca i

O 1450 E. 57 •♦. 3

3 NO 7-9669

4 November 27, 1954

Editors' column

Congratulations to Fermi

Last week Enrico Fermi was awarded the first annual Atomic Energy Commission award for meritorious contribution in atomic energy. The to recognize Fermi’s contributions to basic neutron physics and the first controlled nuclear Chain reaction.

The twelfth anniversary of that “first controlled nuclear Chain reaction” is less than one month away.

It was the work of a group Of some of the most noted scientists in the United States, With Fermi at their head.

Chancellor Kimpton, who Served for a time as UC administration officer of atomic energy work being carried on campus, called the achieveworth $25,000, was given

Enrico Fermi

Letters to the Editor

ment “one of the greatest feats of created effort man has ever achieved."

May we presume to agree and add our congratulations to One of UC’s most distinguished and beloved faculty members.

Allen R. Janger

Richard E. Ward

Issued once weekly by the publisher. The Chicago Maroon, at the publication office, 5706 South University Avenue, Chicago 37, Illinois. Telephones: Editorial Office, Midway 3-0800, Ext. 1010; Business and Advertising Offices, Midway 3-0800, Ext. 1009. Distributed free of charge, and subscriptions by mail, $3 per year. Business Office hours: 1 to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday, x ALLEN R. 

RICHARD E. editor

WILLIAM manager

Executive news editor News 

Feoture Editor Sports 

Production monoger Photogrophy editor Copy 

Personnel monoger Locol advertising manager

 Burboch

Diono Epstein, Bob Quinn, Dovid Schlessinger Suzanne Friedmonn Spike Pinney

 Slein Jeon Carlsson Jock Burboch Gary Mokotoff

Humanists shun Socialists

In your issue of November 5, the lecture given by Dr. Julian Huxley at International House that evening was incorrectly listed as being sponsored by the Socialist Club.

This listing was not authorized by the American Humanist Association, the actual sponsor of Dr. Huxley’s talk. The A. H. A. is a non political organization, with no relationship to political parties or groups of any kind. We learned of the announcement only after it was in print, and discovered subsequently that some young friend, with the best of intentions, had designated that sponsorship in order that the lecture might be included in the calendar of events.

We wish that there were some way to go publicly on record as disclaiming the sponsorship, not only without reproof to anyone, but with our appreciation for the interest shown by the Socialist Club of the University.

We should like to state also that the announcement by our Association that Dr. Rudolf Dreikurs, chairman of the Huxley meeting, was Professor of Psychiatry at the University, was only partly in error. We understand that Dr. Dreikurs is currently teaching a course at the College of the University of Chicago. However, our announcement should have read, "Professor of Psychiatry, Chicago Medical College.” Dr. Dreikurs is vice president of the American Humanist Association.

Edwin H. Wilson Executive Director

Review reviewed

Though the Playwrights’ Theatre production of “The Sea Gull” was quite deficient in its enactment of a Chekhovian mood, (the only person in the cast who captured the mood throughout being Anthony Holland as Treplex), the fact that the two reviewers for the Maroon failed to note this is not nearly so disturbing as their total lack of comprehension of Chekhov. These critics appear to be so ensnared in the meshes of the Ibsenian drama that they view Chekhov solely in the perspective of the situation play, refusing to recognize that the Chekhovian drama is an entirely distinct form, and not a subdivision of the Ibsenian.

The acceptance of Trigorin as a person with "social consciousness” stems from this fallacy. The person who “sees beyond himself” is most certainly not Trigorin, but Treplev, when he forces himself to realize that "new forms” bear no consequence when the creator who must breathe life into these forms is barren. Trigorin is the only character who is concerned with "reality.” Therefore, reason Mserrs. Bloch and Ternenyi, Trigorin is the "message bearer” of the play. They fail to realize that Chekhov, like most great dramatists, possesses no metaphysic. He, along with Moliere, Pirandello, and Williams, is content to present life in the mode of impressionism, not of analytical cubism. His is a synthesis of life. His characters are not "stereotyped”: they are universal. This leads to great mobility of inter, pretation. It allows the wrangle between the “tragic” and the "comic” interpreters to be perpetuated to this day in spite of Chekhov’s off-quoted remark that "Stanislavsky has ruined my play.” It permits the author whom the director of the Moscow Art Theatre called "the poet of the Bourgeoisie” to retain his position with the present government’s approval, as one of the most cher- 4 ished writers of the Russian people.

It is true that Masha ^ay be played as "sober almost to the point of being sordid.” It is also true that she may be just as effectively portrayed as a frustrated actress, exhibiting her masochism to the world in an extremely comic manner. These considerations are irrelevant. Chekhovs search was the search for truth, and the truth may be visible in many forms.

Kay Schwartz

E. STANLEY JONES (vrorid religious leader) to lecture on "A United Church" Thursday, Dec. 2 8 P.M.

Hyde Park Methodist Church 54th St. ond Blackstone Ave.

WHY HOT STUDY IN MEXICO?

Distinguished Faculty New Campus Mild Climate the Year-Round MEXICO CITY COLLEGE

Winter Quarter: January 4 to March 16 Emphasis on Spanish, Latin American Studies, Foreign Trade, History, Creative Writing, Anthropology Grants B.A. and M.A. degrees — Approved for Veterans

Spring Quarter* March 22 to June 2

Summer Sessions: June 13 through August 26

Special Workshops and Intensive Courses:

June 13 through July 15

July 18 through August 19 For Information Write: Dean of Admissions Kilometer 16, Carretera Mexico-Toluca. Mexico 10, D. F.

Editoriol stoff

Poul Boptist, Som Blozer, Robert Bloch, Alice Bloom,

Roger Bowen, Jock Burboch, Alon Chorlens, Bob Emmitt, Rosemory Golii, Lois Gardner, Som Greenlee, Bill Kaplan, Joe Picheny, Gory Schwartz, Norman Swenson, Frank Ternenyi, John Twomy, Prentiss Choate, Joe Abatie, Bonnie Greatmon, Ed Regal, Fred Freed, Je Sn Kwon, Poul Breslow, Sue Tax, Mitchell Slein, Carolyn Mortinetti, Bruce Larkin, Charles Cooper, Dorothy Eppler, Kent Flannery.

Fhotogrophers

Fronk Jokolski, Victor Posnick, Som Tipton, Joe Wolf

Editor’s note: The American Humanist association has no student branch on campus. Campus publicity was apparently handled through the Socialist club. The Socialist club was listed as cosponsor in the Student Activities office. All posters authorized for appearance on campus listed the Socialist club as co-sponsor with the American Humanist association NSA (from page 1) and efforts pertinent to the week. Barbara Vogelfanger and Bob Stein will represent the University of Chicago on this committee.

Specific suggestions for course and faculty evaluation were listed in a resolution introduced by the educational affairs commission. The results of course evaluation, the report advised, should be made available to the general campus community. The faculty evaluation is to be made available only to the administration, executive officers of the department, and the instructor concerned.

Representing the University of Chicago at the three-day conference w’ere five of the 120 delegates and alternates elected in April: Dick Ward, chairman of the UC delegation; Bruce Larkin, regional president; Larry Licht4 enstein, regional vice-president; Al Fortier, and Carolyn Eggert.

Joel Rosenthal attended the conferen e as regional vice-president of educational affairs. To fill vacancies in the delegation, UC NSA representatives elected Diana Epstein, Milt Kotler, Clark Kucheman, Matt Prastein, Eli Stein, and Bob Stein.

If you want to put in a Classified Ad Call Ml 3-0800 Ext. 1009

Mon.-Fri. 10:30- 11:30 2:30-5:30

SUBSCRIPTION-BLANK

Let your parents and friends in on the joys of UC life!

Fill in the form below and bring or send it to "The Maroon" (along with $3.00 to cover cost of mailing and handling). Bring to: Maroon Box, Reynolds Club Desk or

Send to: Chicago Maroon

5706 University Ave.

Chicago 37, III.

Send a year's subscription of the Maroon to:

Name: 

Address: 

R E
D

H O

S

A SNACK

A LUNCH

A MEAL

On a freshly steamed bun, we tenderly place the puppy dog — not a wiener, but a VIENNA puppy dog — red hot — pure

beef — accompanied by mustard, relish, onions and hot pepper, complete .with a generous portion of our

famous french fried potatoes which are often imitated but never excelled. Our S NEDLOG orange and root beer is unequaled ; and no extra charge is made for carry- out containers. *

PUPPY TOWN

open until 1 A.M

1351 E. 55th Street

DO 3-9366

= Orders over $1.00 delivered

 

NEW AND DIFFERENT

STAG OR DRAG GIRLS FREE

TERRY’S PIZZA

finest pixzas made

FREE DELIVERY TO

ALL UC STUDENTS

SMALL

MEDIUM

We also carry

1518 E. 63rd St.

1.00

1.45

a full

LARGE

GIANT

1.95

2.95

line of Italian foods

Ml 3-4045

Dancing and Entertainment Tonight

Music by Eddie Fox The Little Foxes ond Featured Vocalist

MALE Admission $1.00 plus tax

THE ELMS HOTEL

East 53rd Street and Cornell Avenue November 27/ 1954

Page 5

84 clubs registered

Fourteen more student organizations have registered with the office of the director of student activities since the November 11 figure of 80 groups.

According to Miss Wegener, secretary to the director of student activities, all of the women's clubs and fraternities have registered with the office. The only major organization .that has not as yet registered is the Young Republicans.

A student group of 10 or more members in good standing at the University may obtain official recognition by registering. Each organization must have a faculty advisor. All groups which registered before Nov. 3 will have their names in the 54-55 student directory.

What have VICEROYS got

that other

filter tip cigarettes

haven’t got ?

THE ANSWER IS 20,000 FILTERS IN EVERY VICEROY TIP

Inside every Viceroy tip is a vast network of 20,000 individual filters to filter your smoke over and over again. You get only the full, rich taste of Viceroy’s choice tobaccos and Viceroys draw so freely.

Yes, you get Viceroy’s remarkable new tip with 20,000 individual filters plus king-size length for only a penny or two more than cigarettes without filters.

WORLD’S FILTER

LARGEST-SELLING TIP CIGARETTE

Akiu

Only a Penny or Two Moro thon Cigarettes Without Filters

’ '’dll If W ^^4 m^.?; J’.rv WVWZMHH <l V#Mtt:Mf Wtt U4$*)^ ^'rh HHHH^^*^'' ?

King-Size Filter Tip

Durand/UN population director/ estimates four billion by 1980

Present population trends indicate that the world’s population by 1980 can reach as high as 4,000,000,000, John D. Durand, acting director of the population division of the United Nations, estimated Wednesday evening at a Mandel hall lecture.

This growth, Durand stated, would come from the present figure of somewhat over two and a half billion.

Durand spoke on “World population—trend and prospect” in the first of four public lectures of the 13th Institute of the Norman Wait Harris foundation in International Relations.

The Harris foundation series will close this evening when Alfred Sauvy, director of the Institute of Demography, Paris, speaks on “Population and politics: retrospect and prospect” in Mandel hall at 8 p.m.

Estimates increase

For the United States, Durand estimated an increase of about 7,000,000 people in every five years. By 1980, he stated, the

United States would have a population of over 200,000,000 compared to its 1950 figure of about 150,000.000. During this same period the population of the Soviet Union, which can only be guessed at a present figure of 215,000,000, will rise to about 290,000,000.

Estimates of world population, Durand pointed out, are extremely difficult to make with any accuracy. Sudden changes in the birth rate, improved medical care, wars, famine, and pestilence may cause drastic shifts in population trends.

Cancer of pancreas attacked by

UC surgeon’s new technique

A promising new technique for attacking cancer of pancreas, ordinarily extremely difficult to treat, was

the announced recently by a University of Chicago surgeon at a meeting of the American College of Surgeons.

Developed by Dr. Paul Harper, assistant professor in the University’s department of surgery, the treatment uses a fine; polyethylene tubing threaded around and through the tumor I

and filled with radioactive wh Oll I W3 la ZCS

iodine.

The tubing is inserted in the patient’s abdomen by a surgical operation. The radioactive iodine, which gives off radiations similar to radium, is then inserted in the tubing in liquid form. The ends tf^^B

of the tubing are filled with either W

air or mercury and sealed off. j 

One great advantage of the 

method is it provides a localized 

dose of radiation directly at the M I 

tumor. This dose may be as high B I 

as eight or nine thousand roent- f 

gens, which is far above the tolerance level for treatment by exter- ^^B

nal irradiation. J W

The isotope can be left in the / I p

patient until it loses its radio- /P^ I I^ I J I

activity, which is a period of about eight days, or it can be withdrawn |^7 A

if further surgery is needed. After \ the treatment is completed the tubing is allowed to remain in the where causes no diffibeen found to be of little

Ghoul waltzes

Furthermore, some existing population figures, such as the estimate of 500,000,000 for China, are subject to wide margins of error.

Gives minimum

Because of these qualifications Durand figures that world population by 1980 could reach a minimum of about 3,300,000,000 people as opposed to the four billion maximum figure.

At the present time the world’s area is divided into five major types of population patterns, Durand said. The first type is found in middle Africa where there is both a high birth rate and a high death rate. This area is the only one in the world where the death rate is not known to be declining. Six per cent of the world’s population lives in this area.

The second type of pattern is found in Northern Africa and large parts of the Asiatic continent including the islands of southeast Asia, but excluding Japan. Here, Durand noted, a high birth rate exists with a death rate that has begun to decline. Fifty-two per cent of the world’s population lives in these areas of the second type.

T?1I birthrates

The third pattern is found in those areas of the world which have a high birth rate and fairly low death rate. Such are found in southern Africa, Central America, and tropical South "America including Brazil. About six per cent of the world’s people live in these areas, he added.

The fou^h type of population pattern is found in those world areas where the birth rate is declining and the death rate is fairly low. Characteristic of these areas are the southern part of South America, Japan, the Soviet Union, and the Balkan Peninsula. Fifteen per cent of the world’s people live in this area.

The fifth and final type of population pattern, Durand concluded, is found in those parts of the world in which both the birth rate and the death rate are already low. The United States and Canada, most of Europe outside of the Balkan Peninsula, Australia and New Zealand are characteristic of this area. In this area 21 per cent of the world’s population I ’ives.

Choose Redfield for lecture series

Robert Redfield, Robert Maynard Hutchins’ distinguished service professor in the department of anthropology, has been chosen to deliver the 1954 Fund for Adult Education lectures under the sponsorship of the University of California.

Redfield was granted this lectureship for his work in the adult education program of the Aspen institute, and his participation in groups active in promoting adult education. He will deliver the lectures on the four^Jniversity of California campuses.

Redfield is the second American to receive this lectureship, the purpose of which is “to advance the adult education movement through an annual message to the American people on its importance, meaning, and problems.”

Young Republicans, convene Wednesday

Young Republicans will meet on Wednesday in Ida Noyes at 3:30 p.m. Officers for the remainder of the year will be chosen, and the program for the next quarter will be discussed. A discussion of the candidacy of Aiderman Robert E. Merriam for mayor on the Republican ticket will be on the agenda.

ghoul by Gardner

“Witch you were here,” says Vampira Mc Sabbat, extending an invitation to Danse Macabre, the year’s second SU C-Dance. With Welly Shiller’s band, entertainment, refreshments, and a cover of Charles Addams characters, the dance will be held next Saturday from 9-12 at the Ida Noyes Cloister. Club. Admission is $1.75 per couple.

Remodeled rooms now available

Completely remodeled and refurnished two - room apartments are now available for rental from the University. The rent, which includes water and electricity, id $115 a month. Faculty and student couples, faculty women, and women students are eligible, provided they have neither children nor pets.

Each apartment is equipped with a pullman kitchen, electric refrigerator and stove, and sink.

Inquiries can be made at the student housing bureau, Administration 103.

Summer courses offered abroad

Summer courses at four British universities are being offered this year for graduate and advanced undergraduate students. The program, offered jointly by the four universities, includes courses in Shakespeare and Elizabethan drama at Stratford-on-Avon; art, literature, and music in England 1660-1780 at the University of London; and Politics and Literature in the 20th Century, at Oxford.

Application forms are available at the Institute of International Education, 1 East 67th street, New York 21, N. Y. Further information may be obtained from Dean of Students Robert M. Strozier.

The courses may be taken for credit in American universities.

Expenses run about $200 for room, board, fees, and tuition. Some scholarships are available.

In addition to regular class work, tours to all parts of the British Isles will be available, and special effort will be made to allow American students to mix with British students and families.

Courses are run on a lectureseminar basis, with roughly eight to ten lecture^ per week. Seminar courses meet three times weekly. Students are graced on the basis of seminar work, an oral report, and a written essay. THE CHICAGO MAROON

November 27, 195$

Coming campus events in brief

Saturday, Nev. 27

Pky: "The Enchanted," by Jeon Girodoux, University Theatre. 8:30 pm., Reynolds club theatre. Admission $1.

Sunday, Nov. 28

University Religious Service, Rockefeller Chapel, 1 I o.m. Sermon by Wallace W. Robbins, ’President, Meadville Theological Seminary.

Seminar: "Religion and Philosophy," by John F. Hayword, assistant professor of religion ond ort. I ;30 p.m., Judson Lounge.

IRehearsal: University Glee Cleb, 4 p.m., 117 Blaine Hall. Carillon Recital, James R. Lawson, Corillonneur. Rockefeller Chopel, 4 p.m.

Ploy: "The Enchanted," by Jeon Girodoux, University Theatre. 8:30 p m., Reynolds club theatre. Admission $1.

Channing Club supper ond meeting; 6 and 7 p.m. Discussion of program for winter quarter, social afterword. Fenn House, 5638 Woodlawn.

Monday, Nov. 29

Joint Seminar, Institute for the Study of Metals and Laboratory Molecular Structure and Spectra, Research Institutes 480, 4:15 p.m. "Application of Wanier Functions to the Impurity Problem in Solids," George F. Koster, Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

Botany Club meeting, Botany 106, 4:30 p.m. "Agriculture in Nigeria." Sunday 0. Obamwonyi, graduate student in Botony.

Anarchism discussion group meeting, 6:45 p.m., 5638 Woodlown. Speaker: Dorothy Day, editor of the Catholic Worker. •

Motion Picture: "The Lost Laugh" (German), International House, 7 and 9 p.m., 45c.

Tuesday, Nov. 30

Motion Pictured "Shadow of a Doubt" (U.S.), Social Science 122, 7:15 and 9:30 p.m. Admission ??

SSA Club, "The Use of Money in Casewood Treatment," Charlotte Towle, professor of Social Service Administration. SSA Club lounge, 4th floor Cobb, 7:30 p.m^

SRP meeting: discussion of SRP's • aims ond program with Deon Thompson, 8 p.m. Coffee will be • served.

Concert Band Rehearsal, Sunny Gym, 5823 Kenwood. Important rehearsal — all players bring music.

Wednesday, Dec. 1

Lecture: "The Democratic Control of

Foreign Policy," Max Beloff, Social Science 122, 4:30 p.m.

Pre-med club meeting: election of officers ond program planning for winter quarter. Abbott 133, 4:30

‘ p.m.

Rehearsal: University Glee Club, Bonn Chapel, 7 to 9 p.m.

Astronomical Society: "The Structure of Galaxy", Dr. Bert Donn,

the happiest music alive KIMI Featuring the DIXIE DUKES

Every Friday & Saturday night

Open till 4 & 5 A.M. Free Parking across the street

AVALON COCKTAIL LOUNGE (FORMERLY THE ST. MORITZ)

1629 E. 79 St. RE 4-8729

astronomer from Wayne University. Eckhort 133, 7:30 p m.

Camera Club, Block and White print competition, Lexington Holl Gallery, 7:30 p.m.

Science Fiction Club meeting: Garth Bently, "Helpful Hints to Amateur Editors." Ido Noyes Library, 7 ;30 p.m.

INustroted Lecture: "Religious Elements in the Paintings of Marc Chogoll," Otto G. von Simpson, professor of ort, B'nai B'rith Hillel Foundation, 5715 Woodlawn, 8:00 pm.

English Country Dancing, Ida Noyes Cloister Club, 8 to 10 p.m. Wear rubber soled shoes. Instruction for beginners.

Physics Club meeting, Eckhart Lounge, 8 p.m.

Thursday, Dec. 2

Psychology Club, Swift 106, 4;30

p.m. "Changes Produced in the Central Nervous System by Ultrasound." Dr. William Fry, Bioacoustics Laboratory, College of Engineering, University of Illinois.

Motion Picture: "How Green Was My Valley" (U.S. film), International House, 7:00 and 9:00 p.m, 35c.

Lecture Series: "Israel Todoy" (University College), 19 S. La Salle

Classified Ads

For rent

One and two rooms for rent. Furnished. 5509 Greenwood. Ask for Malzi.

Found

Slide rule In Cobb. Call GR 7-0149 after 9 p.m. week days.

Services

Photography by Don Chapp carefully done at reasonable rates. Call MU 4-0563 evenings.

Typing Done. Term papers and theses.

Call KE 6-8696. Mrs. Stanley Bohn.

For sole

Brand new Grommes Hi-Fi Amplifier. $45. Howard FM Tuner $17.50. Call after 5 p.m. MI 3-8216. During day CA 5-3344.

Craftsman tuner. Perfect condition. Best offer. Call Gerald. DI 2-1200. BR 8-1828. 
Davenport. Lounge Chairs, Gate leg table. Large mahogany library table. Book cases and desk. Other furniture. Call DR 3-7919.

 Quick Service.

FA 4-7646. Mornings or evenings.

Enlarging and developing equipment complete, federal enlarger (312) 1 6.3 lens. 2’4 x 3’4. Call B-J Room 435.

15-20 students who entered Social Science Division In WIN SRP or SUM 1954 to take 200 ABC or BC placement test. Telephone MI 3-4610 ATMOSPHERE POPULAR

ITALIAN FIESTA PIZZERIA

Special Pizza ’A Sausage 1A Anchovy ’A Pepper 1A Mushroom

TABLE SERVICE 11 A.M. to 3 A.M

St., 8:00 p.m. "The Armed Forces of Israel." Colonel Bosil Herman, formerly Military Governor, The Negev.

Autumn Meeting, Chicago Chapter of Sigma XI, Eckhort 133, 8:00 p.m. "Factors of Evolution." Sewall Wright, Ernest D. Burton Distinguished Service Professor of Zoology.

Friday, Dec. 3

Lecture (Committee on Social Thought and Department of English), Social Science 122, 4:30 p.m. "The Experience of the Elizabethan Playhouse." Robert Speoight, English author, actor, producer.

University Concert, Mandel Hall, 8:30 p.m. Grace Greswell, contralto (singer of English ond Scotch ballads ond songs os preserved in the southern Appalachians). Ballads, songs ond "white spirituals."

Announcements may be placed in the Calendar by any recognized student organization. The announcements must be written on standard forms available in the MAROON office. All announcements must be turned in by 5 p.m. on Tuesday for events to be listed in the issue of the following Friday.

’48 Ford. Business coupe. Excellent condition. Winterized. Call HY 3-0845 after 6 p.m.

Free

Two Burner Oil Heater. 959 East 61st.

Contact Thomas Carroll.

Personal

Ramona: Why weren't you in the Bartlett gym basement Sunday? I waited over an hour. Roger is sick! Z. B.

Hallam: Grim conductor saw Dee-Dee from Court of Two Sisters on black street-car Sunday. Quinn.

Dragon: At shop ag in. Will send SG clippings next week. J. B.

Al: Why weren’t you on La Salle St.? I waited. Brrr. Diana.

Wanted

Want ride to New York City for Christmas. Can’t drive, but willing to share expenses. Call Ev Mclncke, Foster Hall.

Students going to Miami by train and who wish to take advantage of a group discount ticket, call Marv Friedman, B. J.

Ride to Lima or Athens. Ohio, Nov 28 Will pay. DO 3-5172.

Help wanted

Three stenos, December 27-31. National Student Association National Executive Committee sessions. Larkin—PI 2-9718.

l.eave number. > •

Fifty-Seventh at Kenwood =

1427 E. 67th MU 4 ^

FREE DELIVERY TO U. of C. STUDENTS On orders over $2

Quick Courteous Service

<

7 Doys a Week DELIVERY SERVICE 5 P.M. to 3 A.M Toynbee...

(from page 1)

2500 years ago, Hebrew prophets presented it. Later, Arabic philosophers also proposed it, and St, Paul had a "vision of the unity of mankind."

For several centuries, the huge Roman and Chinese empires "were forecasts of the world community made possible today by modern transportation and communication methods."

View history as unit

This idea of world unity, so vital today, is not prevalent among historians at present, Toynbee continued. "We are less worldminded," he commented wryly, "than the historians of the fourth or 17th centuries were.” The fourth and 17th centuries were used as examples, he explained, because they mark two great turning points in the trend of historical writing.

The fourth century marked the beginning of Christian - Western history,’Which began by "grafting Greek and Roman history onto a Judea Christian base.” The values of his theory of history included, its view of history as unit, its concentration to Greece and Rome a common background for Islam as well as Eastern and Western Christendom, and an absence of the self-centered view of history which sees its own time, culture, or tribe as the crown of everything past.

Comparative view necessary

It is this self-centered .view of history which has "caused (he predominant distortion” in most histories written today. Since the seventeenth century, we have returned to the ’’tribal history of a chosen people, seeing their own

AC AS A Book Store

CHRISTMAS CARDS CONTEMPORARY CONVENTIONAL

IMPORTED FOREIGN LANGUAGE

Featuring one of the largest and most distinctive collections of 5c cards in the city

HY 3.9651 1117 E. 55th Street

4

<

BOUUO Uku H AUTHORITY OF THt COCA-COLA COMPANY BY The Coco-Cola Bot Hing Company of Chicago. Inc.

‘‘Coke'* te a registered trade-mark. © 1054, THt COCA-COLA COMPANY

group as the culmination of history.”

We must, he claimed, "give up this-single-track view for a com parative view of past times and places.” Toynbee feels that this revolution in historical method will result in books which view history in terms of “encounters between civilizations,” as well as emphasizing the origin of a particular segment of the globe at a particular time.

Our civilization, which has been “unusually active,” has created, according to Toynbee, "an unusually strong, almost magnetic distortion of history.” We must correct, he said, “the illusion that all of history has existed’’ only to reach our civilization.

Fossil men rare

To demonstrate his indictment of segmented, self-centered history, Toynbee examined the course of a typical present day outline of “The History of Western Civilization.” “It starts,” he said, “by taking a world view of fossil man,” probably, he remarked, because fossil men are so rare that “all of them may be admitted to the Western club."

The survey of Western history usua Ny continues by focusing att e n 11 o n on Mesopotamia and Egypt, which, Toynbee declared, is rational, since these are the apparent centers of the first civilizations. But then, he continued, the histories deflect from Egypt to Palestine and Greece, completely ignoring China and India. Why? “Probably because neither India nor China lie on the direct road from Mesopotamia to Western Europe."

“It is time,” he concluded, “that we begin to see humanity glowing together.” THE CHICAGO MAROOH

Johnson tells convention politicing of 1952 Stevenson nomination

by Sue Donim

How Adlai Stevenson was dragged protestingly to the presidential altar" was discussed in Walter Johnson's fifth lecture in his Walgreen series on "The Stevenson draft."

Johnson, chairman of the history department was co-chairman of the citizens committee which did much to publicize the nome and record Of Illinois' governor before the 1952 Democratic national convention.

ballots Stevenson trailed Kefauver. At 5 that afternoon, President Truman, who had just flown to Chicago from Washington, urged Averell Harriman to withdraw in favor of Stevenson. (Truman’s albut by the time the convention opened, Johnson said, it was evident that the committee’s role was changing from a passive to an active one. The committee was now acsource of delegate support. Discussions with Mayor David Lawrence and Mayor Joseph Clark and City Council Chairman Richard Finnegan of Philadelphia convinced Johnson and other comson.

Other states were brought into the group—Indiana, Kansas, New Jersey. It was agreed that former Pennsylvania Senator Francis Meyers would be the Stevenson

lively participating in the political maneuvers which eventually gave Stevenson the nomination.

First task told

Their first task was to find a

mittee leaders that Pennsylvania was the state in which this support could be found. The delegation, one of the first to caucus, reported a majority for Steven Advertisement — Advertisement — Advertisement — Advertisement

floor-leader (after Lawrence declined) and that Indiana Governor Henry Schricker would make the nominating speech, balancing support from an industrial state with support from an agricultural one.

Opening night

On the evening the convention opened, Vice-President Barkley withdrew from the race, and many Barkley supporters switched to Stevenson. Among these was Delaware Governor Carvell who decided he wanted to nominate Stevenson. After

ternate, Thomas Gavin, had voted for Stevenson.) But Truman’s action came too late — an hour before, of his own volition,- Harriman had decided to withdraw in favor of Stevenson.

The rest is history: The announcement that Harriman and Dever had withdrawn and were throwing their votes to Stevenson clinched the nomination; Kefauver and Georgia Senator Richard Russell withdrew in his favor; and the President arrived at the International Amphitheatre to inphoto by Timpton

Walter Johnson

Tells role of citizen draft

. 'T was running along backwards fine until I tripped over them,” Adlai Stevenson said of Walter Johnson’s citizens’ committee for Stevenson for president.

Johnson described Stevenson's

DECEMBER AND MAY: ACT II

Synopsis of Act I: A middle-aged English Professor named Phipps has fallen desperately in love with a rosy-kneed coed named Mc Fetridge. Phipps doesn’t know how to go about courting Miss Mc Fetridge, for, after all, he is a professor in the autumn of his life, and she is a coed with rosy knees. Professor Twonkey, who shares an office with Phipps, proposes the following plan: Phipps will ask Miss Mc Fetridge to come to his office for a conference late in the afternoon. He will be urbane and charming and make frightfully witty remarks about English lit, and Miss Mc Fetridge will laugh and laugh. After an hour of this high-type hilarity, Phipps will look at his watch, exclaim at the lateness of the hour, and insist on driving Miss Mc Fetridge home. On the way home, he will pass a theatre that shows French movies. They’ll see the movie, then have an exquisite French dinner, and Miss Mc Fetridge will be so enchanted that .she cannot but yield to his suit.

So at the beginning of Act II, we find Phipps in his office awaiting the arrival Af the poor young innocent. His hair is brushed; his nails are clean; he has new leather patches on his elbows. There is a knock on the door. He opens it and admits a gorgeous creature with blue eyes and pink kneecaps.

Phipps: Ah, Miss Mc Fetridge. Come in, my dear. Won’t you sit down? Cigarette?

Miss Mc F: Ooh, Philip Morris! I think they’re marvy, don’t you? Phipps: I do indeed.

Miss Mc F: Hey, prof, would you mind opening a fresh pack?

Phipps: But I just opened this one a little while ago. It’s perfectly fresh.

Miss Mc F: I know, prof, but I like to hear the snap when the pack opens.

Phipps: Very well, my dear. . •

(He opens a fresh snap-open pack of Philip Morris. Miss Mc Fetridge elaps her hands delightedly when she hears the snap.) Miss Mc F: Hey, that fractures me! Man, I flip when I hear that Crazy snap! Do another one.

Phipps: All right. .

(He snaps open another pack of Philip Morris)

Miss Mc F: (Ecstatically) Isn’t that the living, breathing end? Do two at once. - • '

Phipps: Well, if you insist...

(He does Iwo at onee)

Miss Mc F: More! More! . x

Phipps: I’m afraid that’s all I have. > ’. .

Miss Mc F: Oh Well, what’s up, prof? What did you want to See me about? • .

Phipps: Oh, nothing in particular. Just wanted to have a little ehat, find out how you’re enjoying the Shakespeare lectures.

Miss Mc F: I don’t know, prof. By me Shakespeare is strictly a square.

Phipps: Indeed? Well, I must say I find your attitude refreshing. One is so inclined toward slavish admiration when it comes to the Bard. People forget that in many quarters Shakespeare is regarded quite critically. Take, for example, the opinion of Shaw.

Miss Mc F: Artic?

Phipps: George Bernard...You know, of course, his famous words. Miss Mc F: I sure don’t, dad.

Phipps: Shaw said he would like to dig up Shakespeare and throw stones at him.

Miss Mc F: Did he dig him? .

Phipps: No, I don’t believe so.

Miss Mc F: I don’t dig him either.

Phipps: (Looking at watch) Good heavens, I had no idea it was so late. Come, my dear, I’ll drive you home.

^1iss Mc Fi No, thanks. I always walk home. It’s good for the circulation in your legs. I got the best circulation in my legs of the whole sophomore class. Ever notice how rosy my knees are?

Phipps: As a matter of fact, yes ... Look, you sure you don’t want a ride home? There’s an excellent French movie on the way.

Miss Mc F: Not me, dad. I hate French pictures. The sub-titles always disappear before I can read ’em. But if you want to go to the movies, there’s a new Tony Curtis picture downtown — a real gutbuster. Tony plays this beggar, see, but he’s really a prince only he doesn’t know it on account of his sneaky uncle who switched babies when Tony got born. Then Tony finds this magic lamp, see, and he gets into the palace where he meets this crazy girl, only she’s engaged to the fake prince, but then they have this mad sword fight, and Tony licks about a million guys, and then he finds out he’s the prince and it’s real crazy. Wanna go? I’ve only seen it three or four times.

Phipps: As a matter of faet, I just remembered a previous engagement. Sorry.

Miss Mc F: That’s all right. Thanks for the Philip Morris. ’Bye.

(Exit Miss Mc Fetridge. For a moment Phipps sits in stunned silence, mopping his brow. Then a smile appears on his face. He is a happy man again—out of love. Contentedly he lights sip a Philip Morris.)

©Mi thul BM, 1M4

This column is brought to you by the makers of PHILIP MORRIS who think you would enjoy their cigarette.

Johnson, Indiana national committeeman Paul Butler and other Stevenson leaders spent a sleepless night trying to iron out the situation, it was decided that Schricker and Carvell would both

troduce the Democratic candidate.

Truman gave the delegates a typical “give ’em hell, Harry” speech. And then, Johnson said, “camethe transition between the old and the new in political

statement in the last of his Walgreen lecture series on “The Stevenson draft.”

Other observers gave great credit to the committee for drafting Adlai Stevenson. Johnson,

 make nominating speeches.

Another problem the committee faced came on the “Moody resolution” — the loyalty oath to which three Southern states could not subscribe. Here again, the Pennsylvania delegation took the lead in deciding the issue for the Stevenson forces, voting to seat the ' Southern delegations. Illinois and other state delegations favoring Stevenson switched their votes accordingly.

“Liberal-labor” caucus

This action, however, created distrust of the Stevenson forces in the “liberal-labor” caucus which favored Harriman and Kefauver. Only the pleading of Minnesota Senator Hubert Humphrey and CIO leader Jack Kroll convinced these delegates that Stevenson was not, as Franklin Delano Roosevelt Jr. had asserted, “a tool of the big-city bosses.”

During the convention proceedings, the committee and its new leaders received no support from Stevenson, and many supporting the Governor were acting against Stevenson’s expressed wishes. However, Johnson said, Stevenson, in a telephone conversation with Massachusetts’ Governor Paul Dever answered the question all delegates wanted answered — “Would he accept?” Stevenson said, “Yes.”

Stevenson appears

speeches and philosophy” when Adlai Stevenson followed with his famous acceptance speech—“Let’s

talk sense to pie.”

the American peo Elect Sharp guild prexy

Malcolm P.

Sharp, professor

in

the Law School, was elected president of the National Lawyers’ Guild at its convention last Saturday in Chicago.

Sharp served as first president of the Chicago chapter and has

however, did not go so far as to claim complete credit: “The draft could not have functioned if Stevenson support had not been present among the convention delegates.” This was a roundabout way of saying that the draft could have occurred without Johnson’s committee.

The committee, Johnson explained, unified and mobilized delegate support the following ways: It helped establish a “confidence that a draft could and would occur.” It furnished a headquarters where Stevenson supporters could gather and discuss plans. It organized the core of Stevenson delegates into a funcbeen active in Guild affairs until tioning group. It insured that

his election as president.

U. S. Attorney General Herbert Brownell has directed that the National Lawyers’ Guild be placed on the list of “subversive” organizations. The Guild protested this action. The case concerning the listing of the Guild is now in litigation Stevenson’s name would be placed in nomination on the first ballot.

In reply to Republican critics who said the draft was a put-up job, Johnson quoted the opinions of many leading newspapers, magazines and news-analysts, and added, “that he was drafted cahnot

be gainsaid.

College exams announced

College quarterly examinations •

begin Tuesday, December 14, when physics A and Russian tests are administered at 10:30 a.m. The opportunity to take quarterlies in over 20 subjects and variants will be offered during the four-day period, ending at 5:30 p.m., Fri3:30 5:30

Stevenson made only one appearance at the convention — to _day, December 17.

deliver the welcoming address. His appearance on the rostrum touched off a six-minute demonstration, and his speech, according to Johnson, convinced many delegates that Stevenson was the man to lead the party.

Also, when Governor Schricker placed Stevenson’s name in nomination, another demonstration

The autumn quarter examination schedule has been announced this week by Robert E. Streeter, dean of the college.

Tuesday, December 14

10:30-12:00 Russian 1A, Classics 20

10:30-12:30 Physics A, Eckhart 133 /

3:30- 5:00 German 1A, Judd 126

Hum 3A-Spanish, Cobb 409

English-Sec. aa, Cobb 312

Sec. ab, Cobb 407 Sec. ba, Cobb 415 Sec. be, Cobb 416 Sec. cc, Cobb 410 Sec. de, Cobb 310 Sec. Ka. Cobb 102 Secs. ac, bb, ca, , eb,

da, db, fa, fb

Judd 126

L

was started and Carvell had to Wednesday, December 15

make his speech “amid a sea of ‘America needs Stevenson’ posters.”

The fifth day

The fifth day of the convention saw the balloting. On the first two

10:00-11:30

11:30- 1:00

3:30- 5:00 Hum Hum Hum

French 1A, Mandel Soc Sci 1A, Mandel Hum 3A, Mandel 3A-Greek, Cobb 305 3A-German, Cobb 309 3A- French, Cobb 311

 | HELP WANTED | 5 We need men who ore interested in selling. You E = do not need to be experienced. If you con obtain £ E the use of a car and are willing to learn, we will 5 = pay a guaranteed salary, a very high commission, E E and a bonus. Only three sales means $135 in your £ E pocket. Work evenings and weekends at your 5 3 convenience. This will not interfere with school. E E No matter what your field, you must be able to £ £ sell yourself. We will teach you while you earn. S S Call HU 6-0583 anytime before Thursday. | | Ask for Mr. Golden 

Thursday, 8:30-10:30

3:30- 5:00

December 16

Nat Sci 1A, front half of Mandel History A, rear half of Mandel

Nat. Sci 2A — Secs, aa, ab, ac — Rosenwald 2

Secs ca, cb, cc, eb— Cobb 110

Nat cal) Nat cal)

Sci 3A (Biologi Botany 106

Sci 3A (Physi Judd 126

Friday, December 17

8:00-10:00 Hum. 1A, Mandel

8:30-10:00 Soc Sci 3A—Sec. aa Cobb 101 Sec. ba, Cobb 102 Sec. bb, Cobb 103 Sec. ca, Cobb 104 Secs, cb, cc, da, db* fa, Cobb 110

10:30-12:00 Soc Sci 2A, Mandel 1:00- 2:30 OMP A—Sets, ba, bb, be, bd, Kent 106 Secs, ca, cb, fa, Eckhart 133

OMP — Nat Sci 3A, Cobb 110

3:30- 5:30 Math A—Sec. aa, ab, ba, bb, ca, Judd 126 Sec. cb, da, db, de, fa, Eckhart 133

Math 150 —Sec. aa, ba, ca, Rosenwa Id 2 Sec. cb, da, db, Cobb 110 See page two for Classified ads

*. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., Winston Salem, N. C.

I

M

..

Make the 30-Day Camel Mildness Test. Smoke only Camels for 30 days!

Sofa. 17-inch Westinghouse TV. Upright vacuum cleaner. Bookcase. Philco radiophonograph. Desk. Best offer. BO 8-4036 before Sunday.

Tresa Hughes and Jo Raedi observe the calculations on an abacus by the merchant, played

START SMOKING CAMELS

YOURSELF!

Smiling Bob Yellin sold within 24 hours the following as a result of one single insertion, classified in the Chicago Maroon

by Bob Ball in a scene from “Shakuntala” by India’s great playwright, Kalidasa.

> i

‘Shakuntala,’ Indian fantacy currently at Playwrights Theatre

Shakuntala, a poetic fantasy, opened last Wednesday, November 24, at the Playwrights theater club and will run through December 12.

The fantasy, written by the Indian poet Kalidasa, is based primarily on an Indian fable in which a king of India searches for an heir. The action, which occurs over a period of three generations, is episodic and involves a romance between the King of India and a girl of the forest. Many of the scenes in the play depict Indian tradition and legend.

Choose an Expert THOMPSON MOVERS

Locol and Long Distance Moving CO 4-7600

AND HOW IT STARTED. Fred Birmingham says: “I’ve wanted to be an editor ever since I worked on a boy’s magazine at age 8. After being an editor of the Dartmouth literary magazine (The Dart^ I set my sights on Esquire. It took 18 years of hard work to achieve the editorship — after struggling as a newsmagazine cub, cartoon and essay writer, advertising copy writer and trade paper editor.”

"I sfarted smoking camels

12. years ago. I've, fried many other brands, but my choice always is Camel. No other brand, is so mild-yet so rioh-tastinq/'

Editor of Esquire Magazine

/#*•: - <ktr*>***** a

Smote (.Ajflfjj S Ar more purepleasure

such as the devotional to the God Shiva. The play features authentic dancing by Nina Guha, an Indian student at UC.

The play is directed by Rolf Forsberg, and its cast includes Edward Asner, Vernan Schwartz, Sara Maineo, Anthony Holland, Teresa Hughes and Thomas Earhart. Performances are at 8:30 p.m. Tuesday through Saturday and at 7:30 p.m. on Sunday.

Chicago Review material varied; much insignificant; few highpoints

The current issue of the Chicago Review ranges in content from much that is insignificant and mediocre to some material that is particularly noteworthy.

All four of the stories in the fiction section manifest a high degree of writing skill, but only one of them approaches what this reader considers a rewarding literary experience. I am referring to “The Day It Snowed,” by Philip Roth.

The story concerns a young boy and his search for and arrival at the meaning of death.

The treatment given the contrast between the boy’s mature attitude, his joy at understanding this “disappearance" of a number of his relatives, and his mother’s evasive explanations, her hysterical denial when her son confronts her with the truth, provide the story with a strong and important source of interest.

However, when in the last sentence the child is killed in a ridiculous accident, the gradually builtup strong effect of the narration is insensitively marred. This thoroughly illogical development all but negates the story’s value.

In “The Tournament,” by Jascha Kessler, a skillful portrayal of the feelings of inadequacy on the part of an aging golf champion is evident, but the culmination of these feelings into a sense of crushing tragedy is not explained.

Neither “The Oil” by the late G. A. Borgese, nor “The Devil Below the Stairs” by Barbara Howes, offers much beyond application of fluent style to uninteresting and inconsequential material.

Among the better poems in the Review’s collection of fourteen are two by Charles G. Bell, ecstatic, rhythmic observations on nature and man’s efforts to work with it.

“A Reply” by Galway Kinnell is

a gem of wry, sympathetic, sensitive humor. Richard Aldridge in "Weeping Willow” makes use of beautiful imagery, but the imagery would have been more impressive had the thought of the poem been organized more coherently and accessibly.

With the exception of John Ogilvie’s “Blake” and Myron Broomell’s “Of Emperors,” which approaches a clear, direct expression in a prosaic manner, the other poets were immersed in what appeared to.I>e the web of their incommunicable thoughts.

Occasionally, as now, one might wonder: if writers have something to say, why don’t they say it in the most readily comprehensible manner? Is it that such writers have nothing to say or that they are incapable of expressing themselves clearly and succinctly? If the former is true, why do they write at all? As to the latter, would it not be more honest for such writers to strive for direct expression rather than obscure it?

November 27, 1954

This concept has particular relevance, though perhaps in a different sense, to Kenneth Burke’s essay: “The Language of Poetry, ‘Dramatictically’ Considered.” Burke obviously has a point to make, but why the use of specialized language is necessary for his essay is difficult to understand. His jargon and his vagueness in making his point are impediments to the extent that this reader almost ceased reading the work.

Included in the collection of essays are two of the most outstanding that this reviewer has seen in any recent edition of the Review. Elder Olson’s “Louise Bogan and Leonie Adams” is an example of vivid, lucid writing.

The other non-fictional highpoint of the current Review is M. J. Phillips’ review of “The Poetry of Dylan Thomas” by Elder Olson.

He criticizes Olson’s “schema tization” in understanding Thomas, Olson’s praise of “athleticism” at the expense of truth, and his jus tification of Thomas’ "obscurity.’

Joel Picheny November 27, 1954

THE CHICAGO MAROON

Page 9

Schneider recalls Bull, scrapes thru mediocre with distinction

Despite the inclusion of some contemporary works, Arthur Balsam and Alexander Schneider’s program of violin and piano sonatas last Friday seemed strangely, although pleasantly, old-fashioned and almost nostalgic.

Schneider, like Szigeti, recalls the comments on Alexander Bull by a Victorian music critic named Di Bassetto, namely:

“Now, nothing will persuade me that Bull knows how to play the fiddle any more than

He M rather be right

To give a concert of a single composer is a dangerous business. It leaves one open to all sorts of attacks. For example, suppose one runs into a music critic, one of those unnecessary evils, who doesn’t happen to like the composer. He may simply condemn it wholesale, in his best and most caustic manner.

However Henrich Fleischer is certainly qualified to present

I do. He always reminds me of the celebrated amateur who being asked if he could play the violin, replied that he had no doubt he could if he tried. He solves the ordinary player's difficulties by natural magic, and then falls into difficulties of his own which an ordinary player would settle offhand. But his tone is so fine and so nervous, and so full of subtle and unexpected inflections; and his playing is so unflaggingly imaginative ”

Schneider has principal fault

Perhaps in Schneider’s case this is still a bit of an overstatement. He has one principal fault, which js that whether playing sonatas or quartets, he always insists on the other instruments being subdued throughout, so that he will come through, which always sounds the stranger in that’his playing is so unlike a virtuoso violinist.

However, this method was just what was needed for Schumann’s ungrateful Sonata in D minor, which sounded nontheless ungrateful. As pure music it has a great deal of worth, but the violin part, written continually in the middle register where it cannot be separated from the thick piano part, frustrates the bravest attempts to project it. Style well

suited Schneider’s style of playing is Well suited to this, at least as much as any style is; he believes in expressiveness at any cost, even occasional scratching, mistakes and so on. However he has enough technique to carry

PLAYWRIGHTS

THEATRE CLUB

1205 IV. Dearborn

Tues, thru Sat. 8:30

Sundays at 7:30

Hie romantic Hir.^j fantasy

SHAKUNTALA

Manipuri dances by Nina Guha sitar, tabla & flute music

Reservations available at Student Government

Ticket Agency or call WHitehall 3-2272

^^e ^^um

PHOTOGRAPHERS

MIDWAY 3-4433

1171 EAST 55th STREET

NICKY'S

PIZZERIA & RESTAURANT 1235 E. 55th Street NO 7-9063

Free delivery to F. of C. students On any order

Quick Courteous Service — 7 Days a Week Table Service Delivery Service

11 A.M. to 2 A.M. 5 P.M. to 2 A.M.

Oyen ll 3 A.M. on Friday and Saturday

no 7-9071 hyde park theatre '^lid1

student rate 50c

Now playing

This is the new CAROL REED production. The director of THIRD MAN ond ODD MAN OUT now brings you his latest masterpiece of suspense —

The Man Between

with

James MASON and Clair BLOOM

“Carol Reed's biting suspense all but slices the moviegoer in half?"

— Time Magazine ond

stienbeck’s Forgotten Village

A beautiful evocative documentary with a moving reol story reenacted by the very people who lived it. A finely written commentary by JOHN STEINBECK spoken by BURGESS MEREDITH. An impressive musical score by HANS EISLER, using folk music for scences depicting traditionalism, ond modern composition for scenes of revolt.

Coming Friday, December 3—Sabrina and Roman Holiday Coming soon: Caine Mutiny. Rear Window; High and Dry; Bread, Love and Dreamt; Mr. Mulct's Holiday, and Ftoinenceaa.

WATCH FOR ANNOUNCEMENT OF FESTIVAL SERIES

it off. This is dangerous philosophy for a student, for whom the idea of musicianship before everything has done a great deal of harm.

Unfortunately the two contemporary works on the program were poor representatives of modern literature. Ben Weber’s Sonate de Camera is what one might call a “poor man’s 12-tone piece.” Light and trivial, with a rather unfunny sort of humor, its use of the Schoenberg technique only produces a series of unpleasant sounds with nothing to justify them.

Herbert Fromm’s Sonata in G, on the other hand, seemed rather “tone bound”; it is a uniform and undistinguished work in a com Finds 'Enchanted' unbelievable; writing

inartistic; thought incomprehensible

As seen by this theater-goer, The Enchanted, written by Jean Giraudoux and presented by UT, was a keen disappointment. The play itself was indeed a fantasy (as publicized), but a fantasy void of imagination or artistry.

The personages, with the exception of the inspector and the mayor, were characterless; one could only speak of them by describing in some cases their philosophical attitudes on life and/or death, and in others merely their positions on the matter of ghosts. Outside of the

very, very contrived predicament, their existence was unbelievable.

In such a situation not very much could be expected from the UT cast, but the players very com^Disc

1369 E. 57th St.

Record

of the week

Kathleen Ferrier Last Recital LS - 1032 $4.95

paratively traditional idiom.

Schubert piece height of program

The height of the program, however, was certainly Schubert’s lovely Rondo, Opus 70, along with a movement from one of Schubert’s violin sonatas which served as an encore.

Judging Schneider objectively, it is certainly his enterprise in playing seldom - heard music rather than any exceptional performing ability, including musicianship, which distinguishes him from, not a large number, but a fair sized group of other violinists. Of course this is infinitely preferable to pure virtuosity, but ideally one would like some of both.

Robert Bloch

mendably chose to emphasize the comic elements where possible. This gave some life to the performance.

Perhaps more basic to the lack of artistic expression in The Enchanted was the lack of coherently conceived ideas.

One is confronted by a maze of symbolistic incidents, symbolistic characters, and their symbolistic utterances. What, for instance,

is the meaning of a doctor whose distorted love for nature of Isarole is to make “transitions” from belle and the three girls, dies

a program of Johann Nepomuk David/ a contemporary mostly-organ composer, and the program last Tuesday at

Rockefeller consistently formance.

Still, the

chapel exhibited a high level of pereulogies bestowed

upon David in the program notes seemed a bit exaggerated. David is a Max Reger-like composer, polyphonic to the point where the voices cannot be distinguished at all, and one only hears the vaguest sort of outline.

David knows the organ extremely well, and some effects are very impressive; his choral writing is remarkably clear for the amount of contrapuntal manipulation involved, and in this last he is certainly a remarkable master. But all of this does not necessarily make interesting music.

He has, it is true, occasional flights of fancy rather rerriinmood to mood; or of three precocious little girls who dance around and mysteriously mock the inspector; or the young Isabelle who looks to the dead to give life to the living?

Mess of abstract strivings

What is first clearly stated as a comprehensible, though faulty, conflict between the cold, brutal, heartless scientific facts of the

inspector and the idealistic, warm,

iscent of Bruckner, or even more of Liszt and Busoni, but in general his works show an enviable wealth of technique, with a minimum of inspiration, and the whole in a strange anachronistic style which apparently is a reaction against his early studies with Schoenberg. As Landschmidt remarks: "er waere Heber recht als schoen.”

However, what value there was in just listening to the aural effects was greatly enhanced by Mt Fleischer’s excellent performances of what must be extremely difficult works, and Richard Vikstrom’s fine handling of the UC

choir.

R.B.

photo by UT

Jim Sherwood, who plays the doctor in the UT production of the Giradon fantasy, “The Enchanted.” The play may be seen tonight and tomorrow night at 8:30 p.m.

way into a mess of abstract strivings and profound philosophical announcements from which Isabelle again emerges, attracted simultaneously by the prospect of skipping from Nice to Lyons to Paris with her lover and the offer of the handsome, soft-spoken young ghost to put at her disposal an army of the dead. Very understandably, Isabelle ends up (after a brief fainting spell) skipping to Paris with her lover.

Perhaps some found enjoyment in trying to explain and relate, piece by piece, all the incidents, concepts and peculiar dialogues of The Enchanted, but this writer, lacking such an elastic, ruminative spirit, decided, in the words of Isabelle, that it was all a “state of mind” anyway, so why bother?

Joel Picheny

THE PERFECT

^7 CHRISTMAS

THE REVISED STANDARD VERSION BIBLE

Ordf fod> for your

*' 1 f '’‘I ' and dear ones. And person' due your RSVB odl

/ 'n 9ld ot nonanal

*t SUGGEST THESE KVI GIFT EDITIONS:

Block genuine $10 00

Black 3 50

Block leather Indio paper edition 9.00

WOODWORTH’S BOOK STORE 1311 E. 57th St.

The year’s funniest film!

— lilt Mogaiint

Midwest Premiere

'JACQUES TATI. corrie virtuoso, skips with o Choplinesque manner through gn Hu Bs

Students presenting their ID card* at box office will be admitted for 50c any week night, Saturdays and Susdays until 5 p.* Page 10

THE CHICAGO MAROON

November 27, 1954

Why run? Cross country men's

What makes anyone run? What can possibly make a person run from 12 to 16 miles a week without pay or publicity for the cross country team?

Individual motives give some of the answer, and training methods that prevent exhaustion or extreme fatigue provide the rest; there are no masochists on the cross country team. Motives given by a small cross-section of the Chicago team ranged from “psycho-physical habit” to “the hell of it,” with an undercurrent of “for excitement” running through each of the four answers.

Walt Deike’s answer expressed the excitement motive best. Deike, ex-Big Ten cross country champion and holder of

motives

varsity two- and three-mile records, said, “Everyone craves a certain amount of excitement, and running is a substitute for the excitement that’s missing in so much civilization.”

Paul Baptist found his reasons

with its rhythms, conflict, and resolution.” Omohundro refused to say that running has a good bit in common with a good English novel on the (unlikely) grounds that his professors read the Maroon sports page.

Cross country and track coach Ted Haydon gave some of the training methods that turn three or four miles from a grind into something likeable and exciting. A newcomer to Haydon’s teams will be given practice distances in accordance with the condition he's in. ‘‘By one day of running 70-75 quarters I can tell the shape a runner is in. Eight quarters in 70 seconds or less mean that a man can run three miles safely.

No one has dropped out

Haydon also remarked that, owing to sound conditioning, not

Running means excitement'

a single runner has dropped out of a race this fall.

Once one of Haydon’s runners is in shape, his weekly training schedule will run about like this:

Monday: five or six miles for overdistance work. Tuesday: from six to twelve quarter miles for speed work. Wednesday: two miles for sustained speed work. Thursday: light workout or rest. Friday: rest. Saturday: three or four miles in collegiate competition.

Ride with coach

Practice on Monday and Wednesday takes place in Washington park with plenty of intra-team bantering and many gawking strollers. Recovery from fatigue felt during a race or practice run is extremely fast in a well condi<500D

“I run for aesthetic reasons.”

tioned runner, and so most Ch U cago harriers finish their day by trotting up 57th street from the park to Bartlett gym in their sweat clothes. The others? They ride back with the coach.

“I’m always striving for my physiological limit.”

for running consisted of "two parts ego, one part curiosity, and one part hell of it.” The one part curiosity might be curiosity concerning running in general, but it is more probably curiosity concerning how fast Mr. Baptist can run.

Physiological limit

This particular excitement in discovery was part of Lawton Lamb’s answer: “I’m always striving to find my physiological limit.” Lamb who runs for the Track club and finished close behind Wes Santee in last winter’s Daily News relays, also said that, “I run because I like to run, no one runs who doesn’t like it.”

“Running is a psycho-physical habit,” commented Art Omohundro. an English major. “There’s also an aesthetic element in it,

BETZ JEWELRY

Unusual Jewelry Our Specialty

Expert Jewelry and Watch Repair

N.S.A. Discount to Students

1523 E. 53rd

PL 2-3038

Eye Examinations

Visual Training

Dr. Kurt Rosenbaum

optometrist

1132 E. 55th Street

HYde Park 3-8372

COMO

PIZZERIA

1520 E. 55th St

Golden Brown Southern • Bar-be-cue ribs • Bar-be-cue chicken

Delivery Anywhere

FA 4-5525

►

1310 E. 53th St

HY 3-1970

UNIVERSITY FOODS 1129 E. 55th

Open daily A Sundays: 9 AM. till 9:30 P.M

NSA discount on $3.00 purchases

PLAN YOUR CHRISTMAS SHOPPING leisurely from our wholesale catalogs. •. . • All kinds of quality merchandise at 22% discount to students only.

MIRIAM'S SHOPPING SERVICE

New Location: two blocks north of Stineway's

<ww

3M*M>

' ISTRl Kf

ci

RSH COMMITTING SUt ODB BY ATTACHING y

SUF TO BALLOON 4

Jerry Cray

University of California

tam^.;w^.z2 WHAT’S THIS?

For solution see paragraph below. Droodle submitted by Michael Gross, C.C.N.Y

Marcia Ruhl * St. Cloud S.T. Ct DACHSHUND PASSING DOGHOUSI SUN BY MOTHU INSIDi

Leon Hodge University of Florida

COLLEGE SMOKERS PREFER Luckies —and by a wide margin—according to the largest and latest coast-to-coast college survey. Once again, the No. 1 reason: Luckies taste better. They taste belter because Lucky Strike means fine tobacco. Then, that tobacco is toasted to taste better. “It’s Toasted”— the famous Lucky Strike process — tones up Luckies’ light, good-tasting tobacco to make it taste even better. The pleasure you’ll get from Luckies’ better taste is vividly depicted in the Droodle above, titled: Modern artist enjoying Lucky while glancing in mirror. See the ecstatic smile? Well, you, too, can be happy. Just go Lucky!

UCHES USIE BETTER

CLEANER, FRESHER; SMOOTHER!

©AX Ok product or

M^

STUDENTS!

EARN $25!

Lucky Droodles* are pouring in! Where are yours? We pay $25 for all we use, and for many we don’t use. So send every original Droodle in your noodle, with ita descriptive title, to Lucky Droodle, P.O. Box 67, New York 46, N.Y, ♦©•OODLES, Copy He W 1953, by Hook Mm

AMERICA'S LKADINQ MANUFACTURER OF CIGARETTE*

:>f i.- •• ..'•>.< a 4-, - .r i s. .<i^teui -ifi*,. i>,#K Lu*..; ..,- iii** November 27, 1954

THE CHICAGO MAROON

Page 11

Fifteen men who won Chicago third place in the Midwest Soccer conference pose with their coach in back of Bartlett. Varied expressions seem to mirror their varied record. Front, left to right: John Godfrey, George Stone, Paul Lindauer, Bruce Colby, Spike Pinney. Hear: Arnie Schecter, Garrick Utley, Bill Vanderbyl, Gerry Czamanske. Captain Pete Rosen, Alex Shane, Coach Alvar Hermanson, Al Knight, Ron Sutton, Ned Lyle, Ron Crutchfield.

UC wins 500 meter thanksgiving run Deike sets meet record of 15:08.6

by Paul Baptist

Walt Deike won the individual title and the UC Track Club won the team championship fn the annual CYO 5000 meter cross country run at Waveland golf course Thursday.

Deike set a new meet record of 15:08.6 while beating Kikuo “Cookie” Moriya of Wheaton college. Hal Higdon, Lawton Lamb, Paul Baptist, and John Barnes placed 3, 7,10, and 16 to clinch the team victory for Chicago.

Chicago’s 20 points beat Wheaton’s 35 substantially, breaking a monopoly Wheaton had held on the race since 1946. ’

Sports Calendar

Today: Cross-country, CAAU 5000 meter run, 10 am., Waveland golf course.

Tuesday: JV Basketball, St. Gregory, 7:15 p m., at St. Gregory.

Wednesday, Basketball, 5th army headquarters, 8 p.m., fieldhouse.

Thursday: JV Basketball, Westcott, 3:15 p.m , Bartlett gym.

Qreenlee better

Sam Greenlee, UC cross country ace, is off the critical list at veterans hospital where he was taken two weeks ago after an auto accident near Kankakee. Greenlee expects to remain hospitalized .'or four to six more weeks.

Cross country coach Ted Haydon said of Greenlee, who was running the fall sport primarily to get in shape for track and his half-mile specialty, “The only thing Sam is worried about is running two seasons of cross country without any track.”

Greenlee will probably return to school in the spring quarter. His injuries in the accident included a fractured leg, and a punctured and collapsed lung.

On Monday UC entered the first full team they have ever sent to the NCAA 4 mile run in

Hal Higdon captures third place in CYO run Thursday behind Walt Deike and Cookie Moriya Sports Briefs Track Club travels to Phil,, Funds for trip from alumnus

Because the UC cross country team won a meet several weeks ago, eight UC Track club members run in Philadelphia tomorrow. The meet, against Kansas State, Iowa State, and Nebraska, drew such a favorable account from the Des Moines Register that an Iowa alumnus sent several hundred dollars to coach Ted Haydon for Track club use. It is this money that is sending Paul Baptist, Phil Coleman, Walt Deike, Jim Flynn, Lowell Hawkinson, Hal Higdon, Lawton Lamb and Art Omohundro to the National AAU 10,000 meter run in Philadelphia tomorrow. Chuck Rhyne is alternate for the meet, which will bring the UC Track club into competition with the New York Athletic club, the Pioneer club, and other outstanding running groups.

East Lansing, Michigan, and finished 13th, just behind Ohio State. Sixteen complete teams were in the run, and twelve other schools sent less than five men required for scoring. Art Omohundro fin'Every man a tiger’—Al Bates

Al Bates’ varsity wrestlers are preparing to meet their God on Tuesday when they will take on Moody Bible institute in a practice dual meet. Coach Bates, who also wrestles in the 149 lb. class, has returning lettermen Don Donderi <123 lb.), Kent Flannery 130 lb.), Frank Richards (157 lb.), and Jerry Mehrens (heavyweight), plus several talented newcomers, sweating hard daily in an effort to upend Moody decisively. “They may have divine inspiration,” Bates said, “but our motto is ‘Every man a tiger’.” (Bates’ tigers

photo by Cap and Gown

Don Donderi and Kent Flannery

go on a milk and raw hamburger diet after Thanksgiving.) The match will be held in Bartlett at 3 p.m.

INTERNATIONAL HOUSE MOVIES

East Lounge, Mon. A Thurx. Evex. at 7:00 A 0:00 P.M.

Nov. 29 —THE LAST LAUGH (German) Admission 45c

Dec. 2 — HOW GREEN WAS MY VALLEY (American) Admission 35c

CONSULTANTS

in thesis research —

planning and organization — editing and typing

approved thesis typists

at the HYDE PARK LETTER SHOP

5646 S. Harper Ave. (37) HYde Park 3-5343

ished 53 out of 117, leading the Maroon contingent, Paul Baptist was 63, and Jim Flynn, Ted Fishman, and Johnny Smothers completed the scoring.

Teams that Chicago beat in the NCAA run included Beloit, Grinnell, and Virginia Military Institute.

On Saturday the UC Track club won its own 5-mile open. Three of the host runners led in a field of forty. Walt Deike won iij 25:34, Phil Coleman was second, and Hal Higdon placed third, just as he did Thursday.

Aero points toward ''Carnival''

Acrotheatre is staging a number of performances through the next three quarters which are pointing toward their big spring “spectacular.” One week ago they traveled to Navy Pier for a gymnastic clinic and exhibition. Joanne Thompson did an Afro-Cuban dance, Leah Condit took the Orient as her setting, and Bonnie Cheatham performed a Spanish dance at the clinic, while Joe Cook, Bill Texter, Jerry Jordan, and Barbara Lowes did a quartet adagio act. “Carnival” will be the theme of Aero’s spring show this year. Last year “Acrodeo” was the title of a western show.

Vincent barely outpoints Linn

MODEL CAMERA SHOP Sth Anniverxary

Register for $555.00 in Free Prixes MODEL TRAINS - PLANES PHOTO SUPPLIES NSA Discounts

1329 E. 55th St. HY 3-9259

In the closest played intramural match in recent years, the Vincent house table tennis team, captained by Dave Fre Telder, ex-Illinois state champ, defeated the Linn house team 5-4 last Tuesday at Ida Noyes.

Player-Coach Freifelder won first singles from Jack Risden

HEARD. THE NEWS? Now you con buy AMERICAN EXPRESS MONEY ORDERS at READER’S CAMPUS. PHARMACY 1001 E. 61st Street Pay gas - light - phone bill** too

of Linn 21-12, 21;17, then teamed up with Mike Mandel to win first doubles from Risden and Ha) Levy 21-3, 21-5.

Peter Li of Vincent defeated Jim Winkleman of Linn, and Paul Gilbert edged out Pete Mc Keon to assure Vincent of at least a tie. Then Roy Lavik sewed it up for the Demons as he came from behind in a tense, see-saw battle to

TJT7 A T^f D’Q The Campus Drug Store O 61st & Ellis opposite B J

Fine Perfumes and Colognes for your Xmas Gifts

“Ware You Heard” THE PIZZA KID is on 63rd Featuring Pixza at its Finest Bar-B-Q Back Ribs - Chicken Spaghetti - Ravioli - Mustaccoli Italian Sausage or Beef Sandwiches Kosher Corned Beef Daily: 11 a.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday: 4 p.m. to 1 a.m. “We Deliver”

DO 3-9777 1125 E. 63rd

upend Paul Rozin of Linn in the second singles 22-20, 21-19.

Linn’s Gottesman and Rozin wdn the second doubles from Lavik and Li, Mc Keon and Winkleman won from Gilbert end Jon Larson, while Levy ouinointed Larson 21-15, 19-21, 21-19 in the fourth singles to wind up the night’s activity.

The victory threw Vincent into a tie with Coulter for the intermural championship, both teams finished with 49-16 records. A playoff match has been scheduled for next week to decide the championship.

The College

LAUNDERETTE

1449 East 57th St.

MU 4-9236

CARMEN'S

Used Furniture Store Typewriters and Desks

p5-ALCOHOLIC TONICS DRYING OUT YOUR SCALP ? ¥ GET NON-ALCOHOLIC # WILDROOT CREAM-OIL, CHARLIE -^

Moving and Light Hauling 1127 E. 5 5th MU 4-9003

Thank!

Jimmy's

1172 E. 55th November 27, 1954

Dr. E. Stanley Jones

Minister talks on church unity

One of America’s foremost Christian leaders and long-time missionary to India, Dr. E. Stanley Jones will speak Thursday at 8 p.m. at the Hyde Park Methodist Church, 54th and Blackstone.

Jones is currently on tour in what has been termed “a great crusade for a united church,” and will speak on that topic.

Jones is the author of a number of books in the religious and devotional field and was a missionary leader in India for 47 years. He was once elected a bishop of the Methodist church, but declined the honor to continue his worldwide work.

Fire smokes Foster

firefighters smite fire

The girls’ dormitories on the UC campus once again went up in smoke and flames as a two-alarm fire was reported last Friday night. The latest in a series of small fires doing very little damage, but calling out scores of firemen and much

heavy equipment, was due to a burnt-out coil in the control room of the elevator in Foster hall.

The smoke from the coil found its way up the entire length of the six-story elevator shaft, causing most of the residents of Foster to fear that the building was on fire.

The screaming sirens from the four pieces of fire-fighting equipment which arrived brought most of the residents of the other halls in the dorms outside,-and caused a large crowd to gather in front of the halls.

Although the fire actually was of no consequence, a large amount of heavy equipment was called out, since, according to Madge Lewis, head resident of Foster: “Because of the size of the build HAVING TYPEWRITER TROUBLE?

Prompt, relioble repair service Typewriters rented, bought and sold ACTIVE TYPEWRITER SERVICE

1452 E. 57 St. PL 2-0541

(Special Student Discount)

ing involved and the number of people residing in it, the fire department must send out more equipment than seems necessary on the chance that the fire might be serious.”

SRP to discuss validity of aims

John B. Thompson, dean

of

Rockefeller chapel and sponsor of Student Representative party, will meet with that group Tuesday at 8 p.m. in Ida Noyes. The caucus will discuss the aims of SRP, entering on their validity or invalidity in terms of what the function of student groups is today. Interested students are invited.

Low-cost Christmas travel set to New York, other points east

Special Christmas vacation group fare privileges are being offered to students traveling to New York City for the December interim, announced Bob Heavilin of Student Government. Further fare reductions for small groups traveling east of

Chicago may also be arranged.

The New York group is being arranged by the John Stocks travel service in the Administration building. For a group of 25 or more leaving together from Englewood station, 63rd street, on either Friday, December 17, or Saturday, December 18, at 3:14 p.m., individual round trip fares will be $44.15 including tax, a reduction of 28 per cent. Individual return trips are to be arranged at an additional cost of $1.10.

For parties of three or more traveling together on the same train both to and from destination to most most points each of Chicago, a 25 per cent reduction of train fares may be arranged. The student needs committee of SG will serve as a central agency for

SPAGHETTI NIGHT EVERY THURSDAY $.65 AN ORDER ALL YOU CAN EAT FOR $1.25

Cooked to order

ALEXANDER’S RESTAURANT 1137 East 63rd St.

MU 4-5735

students wishing to take advantage of these reductions, who should contact the Student Service center in the basement of Reynolds club (extension 1068) or the Student Government office, Reynolds Club 302 (extension 1067). Qrant adviser will visit campus

Ford foundation representative Abraham Weisblat will be on campus next week to discuss with students and faculty members the foundation’s program of foreign study and research fellowships for 1955-56.

Weisblat will meet with interested students Wednesday at 10:30 a.m. in Social Science 201.

Beloff treats

No filter Compares with

irade Tip

foreignpolicy

“The democratic control of foreign policy’’ will be treated by Max Beloff, professor of history at Nuffield college, Oxford University, in a lecture to be given at 4:30 p.m. Wednesday in Social Science 122.

Beloff is a specialist in American history and Russian foreign policy. He is spending the current academic year at the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton. Working on a comparative study of the democratic control of foreign policy.

Beloff’s most recent book, The ^ge of Absolutism, interprets that period in the light of modern totalitarianism. Among his other publications are The Debate 011 the American Revolution, Thomas Jefferson and the American Democracy, Soviet Policy in the Far East, 1944-1951, and The Foreign Policy of Soviet Russia, 1929-1941.

Beloff will lecture under the auspices of the Center for the Study of American Foreign Policy.

for Qualify or Effectiveness!

safe

UNIVERSITY BARBER SHOP

Mr. and Mrs. Stu Erwin, stars of TV’s great “Stu Erwin Show”: As we say on TV, this certainly is the Miracle Tip. L&M’s filter beats ’em all.

Mrs. Laddie Sanford, Socialite: I smoke L&Ms ... so do most of my friends.Wonderful filter...fine taste!

1453 E. 57th

Fine haircut-ting Two barbers working

Floyd C. Arnold Proprietor

YOU MAY NOW TELEPHONE YOUR CLASSIFIED ADS . CALL

Ml 3-0800, EXT. 1009

Monday - Friday 10:30-11:30; 2:30-5:30

Actress Diana Lynn: This is the best filter of all—L&M’s Miracle Tip. The smoke is mild, yet full of flavor.

Enjoy Much More Flavor- Much Less Nicotine

What is it that makes L&M the most talked-about, most eagerly accepted, the fastest growing cigarette of all time? Just this. It’s the filter that counts —and none compares with L&M’s Miracle Tip. You get much more flavor, much less nicotine—a

light and mild smoke. That’s effective filtration. No other cigarette has it!

Why wait to try L&Ms? Discover for yourself what more and more filter tip smokers are finding out every day: L&Ms are just what the doctor ordered.

America’s Best Filter Cigarette!

SIZE & REGULAR

O Lkxmit At Myms Tobacco CO