

Kimpton assails UC ’queer Student Government protest

6

Trustee chairman Ryerson

Kimpton, Strozier get letter

A letter protesting Chancellor Lawrence A. Kimpton’s statement at the Order of the "C” dinner last Thursday was sent to the Chairman of the Board of Trustees, Edward L. Ryerson. The letter was sent by the expanded Summer Executive Council of Student Government acting for the government and was voted at their meeting Tuesday night.

SG officials said at the meeting that "students at the University of Chicago were shocked at the wording, the tendency, and the effect erf the Chancellor’s remarks at the ‘C’ dinner.” Copies of the letter were sent to Chancellor Kimpton and Dean of Students Robert M. Strozier.

The vote to send the letter was unanimous, getting approval from members of both the Independent Students League and the Student Representative Party. The members of the Executive Council present at the meeting were Clive Gray, president; Herb Schwartz, vice-president; Monica Kozasa, secretary; Eli Stein, Howard Turner, Jan Metros, Peter Greene, Marlin Smith, and Martin Gouterman, committee chairmen, and Robert Floyd, acting for the minority party SRP on the committee-at-large.

Fulbright forms now available

Applications for the 1955-1956 student Fulbright and Buenos Aires convention programs are available in the Student Activities Office, Reynolds Club 202.

The basis eligibility requirewonts for these pre-doctoral programs are. United States citizenship, possession of an undergraduate degree, knowledge of the country of study and good health.

Selection for the awards is made on the basis of the applicants’ personal qualifications, academic record and value of the proposed study or research project.

Phi Qamma Delta wins sing, cup

Phi Gamma Delta Fraternity, 5715 Univeristy, won the Inter Fraternity Sing Saturday night. The fraternity beat the nine other campus fraternities in the sing, held in Hutchinson Court. The fraternity also won the gold cup, for having been the first fraternity to win the sing three times since the last cup was awarded.

Tumor Institute joins University

The Chicago Tumor Institute affiliated with the University last week, Chancellor Lawrence A. Kimpton announced. The Institute, presently at 21 W. Elm Street, will be re-located in Nathan Goldblatt Memorial Hospital. The Institute will be renamed “Chicago Tumor Institute of the University of Chicago."

The Tumor Institute was organized in 1937 by Dr. Ludvig Hektoen, then chairman of the department of pathology here. The Institute has conducted cancer re^earch and diagnosed and treated out-patients, primarily with radiation methods.

Thank you

। The MAROON wishes to ' Uiank those who contributed | the money which made this | issue of the paper possible.

University of Chicago, June 10, 1954

Order of the 'C' seeking scholarships for athletes

Plans for raising funds to expand the University’s program of "athletic scholarships” have been approved by Chancellor Lawrence A. Kimpton and Dean of Students Robert M. Strozier. The announcement of approval was made by Frank Whiting, president of the Order of the "C,” the University lettermen’s association, at the order’s annual dinner Thursday in the Quadrangle Club.

The original scholarship fund was established in 1951 with $3,000 to provide scholarships

for students "of high academic standing who w ould be interested in participating in varsity athletics.” The present funds for the scholarships would be collected by the Order of the “C” members and would be disposed of by the Scholarship Committee in substantially the same manner. Strozier, chairman of the Scholarship Committee, outlined the following procedure for awarding the scholarships in a letter to Whiting:

“Candidates for the awards could be recommended by members of the Order and by members of the athletic staff. Such candidates should be told that the first step would be to make application through the Admissions Office and then to take the entrance examinations. When these conditions had been met satisfactorily, a sub - committee of the Scholarship Committee would review the individual application and determine the award to be made.”

Strozier, however, added that “it is not absolutely necessary” for a student to take the scholarship examination to be awarded a scholarship. He added, “If, according to normal procedure, a student does not come up to the level of a scholarship student, but we still think he will do well, he may be awarded a remission of tuition.”

Explaining that “athletic scholarship” meant “buying athletes,” T. Nelson Metcalf said “there is no plan for anything that, it seems to me, can be called an athletic

all approve of

The scholarship plan for bringing more athletes to Chicago has met with the approval of Chancellor Lawrence A. Kimpton (left), Director of Ath' letics T. Nelson Metcalf (center) and Chairman

of the Scholarship Committe Robert M. Strozier (right). The plan was announced at the Order of the “C” dinner Thursday in the Quadrangle Club.

Give changes in convocation

Times for tomorrow’s convocation have been changed as follows: Bachelor’s degrees will be conferred at 10:30 a.m. and higher degrees at 3:00 p.m. in Rockefeller Chapel.

scholarship I would object strenuously to anything that was an out-and-out athletic subsidy.”

Metcalf explained that the scholarships would be awarded on the basis of academic achievement, financial need and interest and demonstrated record in extra-curricular activities, including athletics.

Whiting, who had cleared the plan in advance with Kenneth L. “Tug” Wilson, athletic commissioner of the Big 10, thought this program was the first step in rebuilding the athletic prowess of Chicago teams. First emphasis, he said, would be on track and basketball, and later football.

“How fast Chicago can develop the type of men and team necessary for a return to big time football, we do not know,” he said, “but its return to a position of prominence in Big 10 football, while obviously one of our major objectives, definitely is not something of the immediate future I want to see the day when we are back in the Big 10 in all sports, including football,” Whiting concluded.

However, Metcalf said “the Big 10 isn’t interested in Chicago and Chicago isn’t interested in the Big 10, unless the entire nature of the University is changed and the under-graduate college becomes a many times bigger institution.” Metcalf pointed out that since 1946 when Chicago withdrew from the Big 10, Michigan State College has replaced it. With the excep Chancellor wan

who are ‘young and healthy’ <

"Hutchins educated only the intellect; we want to educate the whole boy,” stated Frank Whiting, president of the Order of the "C,” in explaining the purpose of the new recruitment and scholarship program proposed at the "C” dinner last Thursday night.

At the same time, according to 20 "C” men contacted after

tion of Northwestern University, all the schools in the Big 10 are state schools with 10 times as many students eligible for intercollegiate athletics as Chicago.

He explained that there would be no change in the level of competition for UC teams, saying that the school sought teams on its own level. “The ideal schedule is one where our teams win half the contests and lose half,” he explained. When asked about plans for football, he replied “absolutely none!”

However, the newspapers described— in what Metcalf called sports revival with headlines such as:

MAROONS PLAN SPORTS FUND, RETURN TO GRID

BIG TIME FOOTBALL IS GOAL OF MAROONS

In Stockton, California, Amos Alonzo Stagg commented that he was “glad” the University of Chicago was thinking of making a return to big-time football competition. The former UC football coach added that he hoped the University was not “going into a wide-open plan of athletic scholarships.”

Writing for the Associated Press, Whitney Martin said: “We can see no harm in athletic scholarships we believe Chicago belongs in the Big 10.” He added, “It has always been our contention that a college football player should also be a student.”

the dinner, Chancellor Kimpton stated that the University had a reputation for being “queer,” and added “therefore this school has attracted every God damned queer kid in the area.” Kimpton later denied ever having made the statement.

Kimpton continued, “I said only what I have said many times before—that the undergraduate enrollment has fallen, and the reason it has fallen is due to the erronious impression that we are a school for quiz kids. I think that we are a normal, broad, healthy institution. When I went around the country I tried to combat this ‘quiz kid’ impression. Our general education program is so good that it would be too bad to limit it to the upper one per cent of the college students in the country. I want a broad cross section of young, healthy Americans.”

The median student admitted to UC scores in the 93 percentile (of those admitted to college), of the college entrance boards exam, Kimpton pointed out. This is too high; it means that we are scaring away a whole series of kids w'ho just don’t apply to UC. We are losing people who are going to become leaders in the world of tomorrow, concluded Kimpton.

Whiting, Order of the “C” president. said that his group wants to aid the Chancellor by trying to increase enrollment. “What we need at UC is more people who are interested in extracurricular activities.” Whiting, a UC alun> nus who graduated in 1917, explained “We want a well balanced type of kid, of which athletes are only one type.

“The present administration has done the University a great service in bringing back a more orthodox educational set-up,” said Whiting. “With the four year degrees we will not have so many 14 and 15 year olds; the older boys will have a better chance in athletic competition.”

“Since we are all letter winners, naturally we are interested in athletics,” remarked Whiting. “We would like to set up a fund to aid scholastically qualified athletes to come to UC.”

“How ever I see no reason why academic standards should be changed, nor do I think such change is desirable,” concluded Whiting.

Four professors receive awards

The annual awards for excellence in undergraduate teaching have this year been given to Mark Ashin, assistant professor of English in the college, Wells Chamberlin, assistant professor in the department of romance languages and litrature, Beatrice Mintz, assistant professor of biological sciences in the college, and Donald Meiklejohn, associate professor of philosophy in the college.

The awards, which consist of $1,000 in cash, are contributed by Ernest E. Quantrell, honorary trustee of the University.

Picnic rained out

Picnic rained out

The University Meteorological Department held its annual picnic last Thursday night at the point. Picnic preparations evidently diverted the scientists from their instruments —it rained. June 10, 1954 2

What scholarship!*

ENT^WCE EXMA.5 /!*#(%

M

,6 alumni get citations luiuty’service^ ? honored Saturday afternoon when Keith mted them with the foundation's citations. s .

vl IVi .,> contributions to the nation ~ went to Helen R. Wright school of social service administration, and to George O. Curme. Jr., dire rbtde and 

mer president of the Elkhart County (Indiana) Department of Public Welfare;

Mrs. William E. Brentzel, re. search pathologist and botanist at Ji^''’11 Dako,a’ foll^ext

Rev Franklin D.’Elmer, min.

>ter at Fust Bap Ust Chuuh .Finn

| Daniel A Helndel. JKWice fares.

Idem til 1 A. Hemdel In. :

idatioh presi nors —the me

bon Corporation. (Curme was

sent fa. I

Twenty-four alumni received citations tor. contributions to the community, city and stale. They were: ' . ? U

Mr. and Mrs. Charles H. Higgifts. Mrs. Higgins is a social worker while her husband .is an Account executive of Merrills

Lynch. Pierce, Renner and Beane;

’Gretta M. Brown, a district superintendent of thy Chicago pubhe schools'; , ' • c Archibald J. Carey, Jr..; minister. attorney, aiderman and alternate delegate to (he United Nie t|!>nrs; U;

Thomas H. Coulter, chief executive officer of the Association of Commerce and Industi y;

Charles F. Cutter, account exei utive olti. er of the Association ef Commeiie and Industry Alex Elson, at WMt Wsi

Henry H Hagey, Jrw partner of Stein. Roe and Fahrnham; .

Wilfred H. Heitman, president

Arsons,

1

Alumni give

A record breaking g i ft of 159 000 was made by the alum- ,

rence A. Kimpton announced Saturday at the annnaralumni assembly irf Mandel Half

Nine thousand, alurnnf con U tribmed to the fund Earle I.udgin. ch.urm.in oi the Alumni Foundation fundl raising pto gram announced 1 he total con tfibutions-aie expected to reach $ll O.<Xk) bv June 30. when Hie .

; dwe con Hi^ ^ * w

k Nursery

Mundy’I Peale, president of 1^ public Aviations Corporation

Chancellor slurs student body,

^Alhlctie sehfiteships ate, by their very nature, not in accordance with the function of a University as Aft acad^W# institution As such, we are opposed to them. But there is no need foi a w holesale protest. The scholars!^ fu^fc ]M^^ at tiie Order of the "C" dinner Thursday, we are informed, will lie awarded b\ the scholarship committer on the basis of academic achievement, financial nerd and a demons! rat-O record in exti a-eun icular activities, including athletics. This program is not unlike those already in operation.

What i impmtant b fete wttter is toe maimer in which these scholarship funds were proposed. There tl nothing W* usual about a I niversity of Chicago student who participant in a;iilr| ics. and U:-u -• is nothing unusual about one w ho doe not. I cl oi I unaie K . ’ . - "ubers of t h" ( >i d-T oi t he "C":seem to 11-el I Hat their i-, not hi ng abnormal about a Student who devotes his time to study, or to extra-curricular activity, excluding athletics. These alumni who have been, for the most part, out of touch with the University and the recent develop' ments in educational circles are not the proper persons to dioi itr !',.> educational policies of the University.

W'hal is moi" imioi nmalo in this situation is that the Chair-rllor of the University of Chicago felt called upon to 'hdd fuel to their belief. In doing so, he cast a slur upon the student body of the University, a slur which is entirely un, - .founded. We have no objection to expanding scholarship funds, or maintaining a well-rounded program of extra-curricular activities at this University. What we object to is fee language used by the Chancellor of this University. not

In attempting to polish the politicians at the dinner, the have to inquire into the precise <onno Chancellor descended to the level of every detractor oftfe.-.|f8&^ “ * '

University. The University of Chicago has enough enemies at Vo WKSt Sli S: '

present, without the need of the Chancellor s attacks upon his must be “healthy”; that is to say, he own student body. Tho students here should feel insulted by the Chancellor^ remarks, and they are certainly wiibin their 15 t .

Mghts in demanding an apology. We hope that the remarks not pc: m SI m*? • l’"l n 1 , the made Thursday did not represent the true feelings of the ;“\\Y;^ aven'=e.... "“^ Chancellor. g ^ 4 n - ^Jp>ay go so Tar as to say that It Is

We are especially concerned In this matter, because if the

Chancellor continues his talk of attracting "a broad c^^^tt^tt K^ section of young, healthy Americans,” he will, we are afraid, a^o capable or using their intelligence find the University of Chicago without those students and ^Zt7oa Ve K&o.n ?^^^^ faculty members who have made this Univorsft KW^^ admired and respected institution that it is. nji^ Sfoneman

Letters...

Regrets remarks

„t .Im.™.^ Na I Bank „ '

ol Mn< M.uv Ilenitk s>cm I mi a • • * 

ence teacher in Du Sable high V^ri Ginal Ta CUl Ty

school; ;

Clav Judson, co partner of Wil ITl Cm DOr U.I6S

-sen and Mt Ibane.

Glen A. Llovd. deputy Jo due,- ..P^ C^CHowtat Kl one „f - the original faculty members of Un* t'nivei sitv diet! :,.- nat the age of 88 in Kennebunk Maine Howland a professoi -i

(I - I Un-1 lllei.tlitie K-lue . in 1930.'

He was born in Louisville/Ken

l It. kv in iso > .,11-1 " it - • •

tor of the foreign operations >adnrm Cu.c.H '

James L. Palmer, president., of

Mai shall Field and Company: "

Sidnev Stein. Jr., partner of

it is to be regretted that Mr Kimp- Sfejn, Roe and Farnham ton had stepped out of his type-custed ‘ -nd.

faculty revels role In winch his words could be safely ignored when, last week.

Mis. Clifton Utley, news jpommentator: , I ' . . '

j4H^B*M a N( creiv dei Hipu | >d f M&*

y

Wanted

For Rent or Sale

Help Wanted

FOOD

WHERE THE

MEETS TO

U OF C

EAT

• cents pet 1-2068 ..

11

he discussed his projected plan# to low,er a great curtain of muscle . and

above mentioned red-blooded

vour mathematical needs Individual • group'sessions. Albert So^lnij ST 2-672.

fa

w H

or ihe hypertrophied biceps seems to depend largely Upon whose dinner he is attending Maybe I should ask him* to my house. ( .

\ J .'- Agathon

Portraits by

LOUISE BARKER

Photographer

For rent or sale,—9.4 Admiral refrig. 

•or. ei’ht mouth's old. 122.) E 58th, Api

It is easily enough ag Tejed-that Chah- l4 __

cellar Knnptou'., LCest rmeren to hi |{|((. w .u.ington. It )

 ’ 1 inexcusable. His ins,,. H . wii'.-i .

Verbal a UO^'tie^ l° 'h C ‘'“"n^1' Summer job im . , m<n a, P-.Dmc. 1 Whir m rone^rn us is rather the -Du ect Orat .the Michiana .Summer 'I hea fallacy which is apparently guiding the pol^Mmi^Sim'S b Cx "^'^ formation of-University policy. In Mr Fomiduion, Inc., Box 334, Michi,an JCimptons mind. Intelligence Bind city, Indiana.

Business Services

Kent- ati electric .refrigerator as low/t , $4 per month We also repaid rerrfgerltoi V CO '4 -1)23'1. ' ' ’

Everett Van.Slice, vice-president ;^or s* degree at Amherst College w Stop rates I ..'->.'• ’O find >*>e p , \| Un I

tissue

furnish. <1 apartment, 2*. tooms, mod eru kit. lien shower. 1404 E 57th St MT

3-2444 . i d

Room, adjoining bath, c le.ui -quiet, cooliome privi-leges One bio. k troth Ut .

Model n luge I pail men I

W^i^%^v^

pus—unless of course he fin'da 

thing better to oiler than blood, sweat. v VB

h;4 cheers. a <?<* a

In closing I wish only to note my impression that whether out latest Relol mer plunks for the massive Intellect

GOO#

FELLOWSHIP

AT

H

E. 55411

Take the

NAT SCI I comprehensive al the end of Summer. Private tutoring for dividuals or smalt groups.

the io

Phone PL 2-3790

Before Fridaw . June 18

SHEER

Jimmy’s

Insult unwarranted .

couched in language likely to be ob^c- Mother, daughter. adul H desire aparwon Wc to manj oi tho •• whose respect :,„ / M; and M: Ki nt " *O'U>i like . ,„

to secure,ftp the University.

Nevertheless-, ,UC students, a re not of such tender Sensibilities .that we need demand satisfaction in combat FINE

MIDWAY 3-4433

SANDWICHES AND COKES at

1171 EAST 55Hi STREET

1457 E. 57th St. BU 8-0876