Academic Freedom week

begins as scroll is signed

The presidents of MH|| sity Administration started o: of Rights scroll la^^^j

Among those present were

?nt organizations and prominent members of the Univere^ic Freedom Week activities with a signing of the Bill

ph F. Streeter, dean of the chapel Ji

^/’j1} S‘ The sc™11 “ being sponsored

Ibis scroll copies of.which by the |m Rtee of campus wide will be circulated among the representatives from student orst udent body during Academic ganizations and dormitories which Freedom Week, contains a pre- ^ coordinating the week’s activiamhle consisting of an affirms- V ^^

lion of "our continuing belief A“ e Ve"t S “"^ out b*

our Bill of Rights,” and states --•'-•----^^

its Robert M. Strozier, Dean of the College Robhpso M and William Birenbaum, director of stuthat “only if these freedom* Are

ers explore, study and express their ideas without-hesitation or

fear.”

this group also will have Student Government approval. A goal of 3,500 signatures by next Sunday has been set by the committee.

Representatives from the student body who signed at Monday’s ceremony included Clive Gray, President of SG, Janice Porter, “Miss U of C,” George Stone, president of the Interfraternity council, Bill Hillman, nrocidont of student Union, Paul of SRP, Bruce Larkin of Arthur Brown, editor of the , and others.

Bruce Larkin, ex-president of Student Union, signs Bill of Rights as (left to right) William Birenbaum, Director of Student Activities, John B. Thompson, Dean of Rockefeller Memorial Chapel, Robert E. Streeter, Dean of the College, Robert M. Strozier, Dean of Students look on.

Univ Petition deadline Tuesday

The final deadline for petitions* for candidacy in the forthcoming election of delegates for the National Student Association (NSA) is 12 noon Tuesday.

Petitions may be secured and when completed must be filed in the Student Government office with signatures of forty registered students. Any UC student on the quadrangles with a full course program, at least a C average, and more than one quarter residence, is eligible to be a candidate.

The campus-wide election for NSA delegates will be held on April 22-23.

No administration money this year, housing coop plans go ahead anyway

by Arnie Matanky

>1/

Student Government is going ahead with its plans for a student housing cooperative even though there won't be any money coming from the administration for the project for at least a year.

Clive Gray, SG president, told the student assembly Tuesday night that the student interest committee of the University Board of Trustees had voted 8-1 in support of the coop project, but that the University's business manager opposed a

University loan to set up the coop.

Gray suggested that SG may be able to rent a suitable building for the next year and then buy it with administration backing, after the students demonstrate their ability to handle the project.

Council not discouraged

Other universities’ student housing coops started by renting their buildings, Gray said, and then proved they were capable of managing their projects. “The SG executive council is not discouraged,” he added Dean of Students Robert M. In other actions Tuesday night, leader, to consider a constitution Strozier has promised to help find SG:k M^^r,\ ~ ?. . al referendum on the methods

a suitable building and has prom- ...heard Michael Girsdansky used to fill SG vacancies. Howised other support to the coop (Soc Sci) read himself out of the ever, enough students have signed plan, Gray reported. Since SG Student Representative Party, a petition calling for the referenwon’t be able to remodel the build- Girsdansky said Ms disaffiliation dum to assure it a place on the ing it rents, an effort will be with SRP W “in no way an in- ballot made to find a building suitably dorsement of” the Independent ... heard that others, not SG designed. / Students League, the majority representatives, have also left

a petition calling for the referen Kimpton speaks; faculty listens

Lawrence Kimpton, Chancellor of the University, in a speech given Tuesday afternoon before the University Senate said that education has lost ground in the United States since the war. The speech, which was given in Mandel Hall, was heard by all tenure members of the UC faculty.

In spite of the tremendous demands made on education, the investment in it has not been proportionate to that made in other areas. This is partly the fault of other universities.

Kimpton said that since he became Chancellor, that is as of April 12, 1951, his task has been "to consolidate and stabilize the economy of our institution.”

The university has, according to Kimpton, kept in mind the fact that the reputation of the University would not be assured solely by economy and retrenchment.

Registration drop over past year

Total University of Chicago reg. istration has dropped again over the past year—this time by seven per cent. Registration has fallen from 5279 students in the Spring Quarter of 1953 tp 4908 students in the Spring Quarter of this year, according to the Office of the Registrar.

Total enrollment and per cent

changes, by divisions, as follows:

Biological Sciences 480

are given

Won't be co-educational party in SG. SRP.

The coop will be for either men Twa mw members ...applauded a letter from

or women with another building ...welcomed Ann Casselman Chancellor Lawrence A. Kimpton possibly added later on to house (ISL-Soc Sci) and Robert Floyd promising to restore library servstudents of the other sex, since (SRP-Phy Sci) as new members ice that had been cut university policy is opposed to filling vacancies. Jim Crgw to South Africa

housing men and women students ...defeated a motion by Paul ...deferred action on a letter in the same building. Breslow (SRP-Soc Sci), minority me "SC," page 5

College :

Humanities Physical Sciences Social Sciences Business Fed. Theol. Fac.

Law

Graduate Library Soc. Service Adm. University College

1095

366

431

865

131

277

203

47 . 144 - 869

(—10.6%)

(—13.1%)

(—

6.4%)

8.1%)

8.9%)

7.7%)

1.1%)

0.5%)

6.0%)

7.7%)

2.5%)

Students vs. profs

Opinions

Last week the University released its official

containing descriptions anc

| Anticipating strong campus

explanations of both the new college AB degree and the joint degrees offered by the college and divisions. , ~ ~ _ reaction to these changes, the Maroon, this week, undertook to ascertain the nature of faculty and student opinion on the issue of the revised programs.

Among those students questioned, the Maroon discovered an almost unanimous dissatisfaction with the greater part of the revised program, and with what was feared to be the trend away from general education to more and more specialized study. Only the new college AB, as distinguished from the joint degrees, received consistently favorable student comment.

In order to achieve as wide a representation of student opinion as possible, the Maroon interviewed both college and divisional students. The following are representative student reactions.

"Force of general education"

Norman Mages (Bi Sci): “Some of the Bachelor’s programs make a farce of general education by enabling and advising students, to take only three or four general education courses outside of their major field. It becomes, in effect, an elective system with no common base in general education.”

Eileen Kirman (College): "I

went quite thoroughly through the Announcements, and I was generally disappointed. I was especially sorry about the changes leading toward the BS degree. I think there is too little emphasis placed on general education courses; there is too much specialization too early.”

"Announcements lack one thing M

Milt Kotler (College): “The new announcements lack but one thing, pictures of succulent coeds; or, stated differently,, there is much form without content.”

Fred Solomon (Bi Sci): “The replaced booklet, If You Want an Education, stated, Tf you are a normally mature young man or woman of sixteen, fifteen, or even fourteen, it has been proven beyond doubt that you are able to "take” going to college.’ Our new Announcements of Undergraduate Programs says, ‘Students ‘Students with two or three years of high-school credit who demonstrate unusual academic achievement and social maturity may apply for admission to the College Their applications will begiven university. But in spite of the careful and interested considers- changes, I feel that the new protion.’ I think this is an esper*®1*’* •

revealing juxtaposition.” BS programs a compromise

any change would be a bad one. I think, though, that the tutorial

Joel Kupperman (College)

W grams will stit U Provide a bettey program was a very valuable addigeneral education than most other tion. Some sort of specialization /schools provide.” has its place. It’s still a compro"The new BS programs are a compromise with expediency. They represent the simple fact that most individuals are not willing to spend time and money in order to get more of a liberal education than is absolutely necessary."

Marcus Raskin (College): “Perhaps in twenty years another great awakening in education will occur here so that the general education program will not be an almost insignificant part of specialized . education, but rather a unified program similar to the new general studies BA.”

Jim Rosenblum (Bi Sci): "The new BA programs, I feel, reduce the value of the UC College as the best place for a general education. The College is no longer an individual standing prominently out among many, but is reverting to the prevalent type of American

Som*

mise, but since there was a necessity for compromise, they did a very slick job in carrying it off.” "AB sounds good ..."

Dave Salzman (Hum): "The requirements. It has never liberi ;^£w general studies AB for the certain, however, whether the rea-.. ®W£Se sounds like a very good sons given for the change are gen- i|^|^^^a^e idea. I am delighted uine. or are a nos ter iori general- th^tv^gd P has been retained in the sequence, and I believe most part the best

"Taken by itself, there 
eral college program fb ।

uine, or are a posteriori generalizatios. The important matters of ^ that

University policy should be decided on their merits as issues instead of on the basis of University politics. .Viewing the change as part of the complex of increased “athleticism” (as opposed to athletics), as well as a general “rippety-tear” spirit, one can only see the change with considerable alarm.”

Bill Pozen (Law): "At first I was outraged at changing the AB program. I thought it was something symmetrical in itself, and

courses hawbe

Somewhat^ sponses were! following facui interviewed by

en retained.” tore optimistic re-pcited from the Ty members, also the Maroon.

Russell Thomas (Professor of Humanities in the college): “On the whole I view the new programs for the Bachelor’s degrees with great interest and considerable favor. My chief concern throughout the long discussion Walkouts, 3rd party threat UC team vs. visiting Indian debaters:

hit campus political parties

by Arnie Matonky

Rumblings of discontent were heard from both political parties on the campus this week with the possibility of a third party not ruled out.

Michael B. Girsdansky (Soc Sci) announced at the Student Government meeting Tuesday night that he no longer considers himself a member of the Student Representative Party (SRP).

Ralph D. Fertig (Soc Sci) dramatized his departure from SRP b’y sitting on a chair in the middle aisle before the meeting began. Fertig, chairman of the SG neighborhood commission, left SRP amid party charges that he had displayed “irresponsibility” in operating a sound truck around the campus.

Michael C. Kaufman (Col) is the third member of SRP to leave his party in the last few days.

Sol Hirsch (Law) quit the Independent Students League (ISL) after charging that “not enough work is being done.” Clive Gray, president of SG and ISL leader, said that Hirsch had continually refused to take part in party work and had declined to participate in a committee.

David Nash (Col) also walked ou i of ISL, and Jus tin M. Johnson (Col) was reportedly considering running under the SRP banner in the National Student Association

see "3rd Party," page 10

Hold contest in

poetry reading

The Florence James Adams Poetry Reading Contest will hold preliminary readings in Breasted Hall of the Oriental Institute at 3:30 p.m. on April 23. The final readings will be held at the same time and place on April 30.

This contest is open to all students from 17 to 26 years of age who have been registered for at least two quarters and are carrying at least two courses. No students who have previously won prizes are eligible to compete for the same or lesser prizes.

For further information and for approval of selections, consult Mrs. Mullin, assistant director of student activities, between 1 and 5 p.m., Monday through Friday, in Reynolds Club 202.

The public is cordially invited to attend both the preliminaries and the finals in this contest.

'Indian neutrality necessary for peace?

by David Schlessinger

“Resolved: Indian Neutrality is Necessary for an Understanding between East and West* was the topic of a debate and discussion by the teams of Ward Wright and Lloyd Keno, UC students, on the negative side, and Mrigendra Kumar Chaturvedi and Rameshchandra P. Sirkar, traveling Indian students, arguing the affirmative position. The debate was sponsored by Student Forum in Soc Sci 122, Thursday, April 1.

The positions of the two sides were presented in four individual 10-minute speeches alternating members of the opposing teams; these were followed by four five-minute rebuttal speeches and a questioning period. India follows impartial course

During the course of the debate, India’s position was formulated as follows by the affirmative side: India sees the current contest between world blocs as a struggle for power. She feels that her most useful role in this struggle is as impartial mediator and conciliator, trying to help reduce the tensions which, as Chaturvedi said, “lead to the atmosphere of hysteria and fear requisite for any war.” .,

“The fact that India does serve a useful purpose in world politics supports the argument that she can reduce the chances of war, according to the affirmative speakers. She is there as a universally-acceptable neutral when the two great powers require a mediator. In Korea, for example,

she helped to reduce the chances of war by doing all she could to keep conflicts localized and by mediating on the Neutral Nations’ Commission. “If we have not negotiated a settlement between the two major power blocs of the world, we have at least helped to create a climate of peace and to bring about the beginnings of mutual understanding,” summarized Chaturvedi.

Vote way to fill vacancies

Hiltner talks on psychoanalysis

'Freud obsessed with religion'

by Diana Epstein

Developing the relationship religion may have to psychoanalysis was the objective of Seward Hiltner, Acting Dean of the Federated Theological Schools, in his lecture — the second in the series, “Psychoanalysis and the Modern World” — delivered before a capacity crowd last Tuesday in Breasted Hall at 8 p.m.

In his hour-long talk Hiltner centered his psychoanalytic references on the thoughts and works of Freud, expressing the rather universal judgment that all psychology has its beginnings in Freud; he, therefore, is the most important contributor to psychoanalytic development.

“Psychoanalysis and religion are not strictly coordinate terms” Hiltner explained. Psychoanalysis can be treated in three ways: as a history (a movement from Freud); as a theory (a set of principles, however changing, with a core); and as a therapeutic process (a treatment which tries to help somebody).

Freud evaluates religion negatively

Although Hiltner did not try to define religion, he stated that it, too, is always particular: it has a history, a basic theory, and a practice (which could be termed “therapeutic”). In this sense, psychoanalysis and religion are cognate and coordinate. Yet, the histories of patients who have undergone psychoanalytic treatment are not authoritative interpreta'tions of psychoanalysis, whereas the histories of “patients” who have been administered through religion are authoritative interpretations of religion. “The difference lies,” Hitlner added, “within the nature of religion as a fellowship.”

Freud’s first paper on religion was published in 1907; in it, he refers to religion as a “universal obsessional neurosis.” Hiltner observed, “Freud evaluated religion

negatively.” Key statements on the functions of religion appear in Freud’s "New Introductory Lectures.”

Lists goals of religion

In these, Freud lists three basic attempts of religion: to give man information about the source and origin of the universe; to assure man of protection and final happiness amid the changing vicissitudes of life; and to try to guide the thoughts and actions of man by means of precepts which are backed by the whole force of its authority. Freud’s greatest criticism was that religion attempted to give man an illusion of knowledge which did not exist.

Hiltner expressed fascination by the fact that Freud returned again and again to religion as a topic for his writings. Only minor attention was given other phases of culture — art,'education, and myth. “Concern for the function of religion was almost an obsession with Freud,” Hiltner noted, smiling. Religious origins, Freud felt, were social origins. He saw religion as the “sole possible competitor to science.”

Constructs five-point theology

Some years ago at UC, Hiltner, who is associate professor of pastoral theology, headed a seminar on Freud and religion. The latter half of his lecture concerned his observations and interpretations of the two, formulated, in part, through this seminar. Hiltner pres e n t e d a five-point Freudian theology:

1. Actual life can be understood only in terms of its dynamic or

see "Hiltner," page 10

A referendum relating to the method of filling vacancies in Student Government will be voted on by the campus on April 22 and 23, at the same time as the National Student Association elections. This proopsed amendment to the SG constitution states:

“Resolved that vacancies arising in Student Government shall be filled where possible:

“A) in the case of a recognized campus political party, by another member of that party.

“B) in the case of an independent, by an applicant of similar political views.”

The referendum was added to the ballot after receiving more than 200 signatures necessary for such a move. Last year the same referendum was voted on, falling short of the necessary two-thirds by a few votes.

At present, vacancies are filled by a decision of the executive council of Student Government.

Sirkar made the further point for the Indian position that India sees a division between ideology and violence. “India does not see possible compromise between ideologies,” he said, “but ideologies do not cause wars anyway; on the contrary, common self-interest should prevent wars.” It is armament races which cause wars by arousing fear and distrust; a show of force only produces the psychological atmosphere of jealous suspicion which leads to war hysteria. Another war would be disastrous, but can be avoided by compromise of the hostile nations through the mediation of neutrals such as India in the world forum of the United Nations.

Wright and Keno formulated the opposite side of the argument by examining Indian foreign policy to see if it is realistic, and also to see whether it helps or hinders the efforts of nations see "India," page

Talk: ‘students and race riots' "How Students Can Help

KJ

10

in

Stopping Race Riots” will be the topic of a talk by Mrs. Phillip Howard Thursday at 8 p.m. in Rosenwald 2. The UC chapter of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) will sponsor the meet* ing. Mrs. Howard was a victim of recent riots in Trumbull Park.

The NAACP is also planning an exhibit pertaining to academic freedom. The display will be part of the academic freedom exhibit to be held next week in the Reynolds Club lounge.

Want lower golf scores

YOUR

ASK ANY GOLFER

WHO OWNS

TYPEWRITER

Is an Instrument of

DELICA TE

A SET OF SYNCHRO-DYNED CLUBSI

Hundreds of unsolicited testimonials from amateur golfers tell the same story on Spalding Synchro-Dyned woods and irons — golf's more fun now and a lower-scoring game, too!

In Commemoration of

ACADEMIC FREEDOM WEEK

The Labor Youth League presents

Doxey Wilkerson director of the faculty, Jefferson School of Social Science

ON

Marxism and Academic Freedom

4 p.m. 5493 Blackstone

PRECISION

You’ll see why the first time you play these advance-design clubs. Your shots are easier to control, your swing is freer, your timing more uniform — because every woodt every iron has the identical contact feel!

Have it Cleaned - Repaired - Overhauled — Only by Competent Typewriter Mechanics AT

The University of Chicago Bookstore

5802 ELLIS AVENUE

Have your Spalding dealer fit you now.

Spaldin G

Synchro-Dyned

BOBBY JONES

WOODS & IRONS

JIMMY THOMSON

WOOD* April 9, 1954

THE CHICAGO MAROON

Page 3

Hitchcock con-man

given year in prison

Charles Harris, of 6345 S. University, who was arrested while soliciting magazine subscriptions at Hitchcock Hall last month, has been sentenced to a year in the House of Correction for operating a confidence game.

Municipal Judge Henry C. of the con game charge in Grai ing is pending on Harris’ petition to be freed on the con game and one other charge.

According to campus police, Harris solicited magazine subscriptions in Snell, Hitchock, International House, Zeta Beta Tau fraternity house. Burton Judson

and the Chicago Theological Seminary dormitory.

John T. Compton, president of the Associated Trade Press

(ATP), said that Harris is a bonafide independent agent of ATP and that UC students who bought subscriptions from him are protected by bond if they still have their receipts.

The house head of Hitchcock Hall, Channing Lushbough, had disclosed earlier that students who subscribed to Newsweek through Harris last quarter have never received the magazine. Lushbough cited wide variations in subscription prices offered by Harris as another indication that the offers might be fraudulent.

University rules bar agents of any organization not recognized as a campus group from soliciting on campus. Officials have asked that any students who are approached on campus by a representative of non - recognized group turn over any literature they receive to the campus police.

James Compton, vice-president of ATP and son of its president, said this week that every subscription from UC students holding ATP receipts is being processed and that all of the subscriptions are being forwarded to the magazines involved.

At the court hearings on March 16, officials of the Veterans Administration (VA) tried to have Harris put under VA supervision. The younger Compton said this week that Harris has been a mental patient at the VA’s hospital at Downey and had never been released.

Judge Ferguson and the state's attorney’s office indicated they were opposed to putting Harris under VA supervision instead of having him serve out his year in the Bridewell.

Lushbough said this week that

WHERE THE Uof C MEETS TO EAT Gc Vc Un U

W FINE FOOD 1321 East 57th Street

Eye Examinations Visual Training

Dr. Kurt Rosenbaum

optometrist

1132 E. 55th Street HYde Park 3-8372

Ferguson found Harris guilty id Crossing police court. A rulas far as he knows, no residents of Hitchcock who subscribed through Harris have started to receive their magazines. Compton explained that it takes “from two to three months’’ for copies to begin arriving.

7 given scholarships

to UC, foreign study

The University scholarship committee announced the granting of four fellowships for study at foreign universities and three William Rainy Harper fellowships for study at UC.

James V. Compton, who holds an MA in history and is presently studying in the education department, was awarded the Konrad Adenauer fellowship for study in any West German university.

The Adenauer fellowship which covers all travel expenses to Germany, tuition and a living stipend, was instituted by the West German Chancellor Konrad Adenauer, on his visit to UC in April last year.

An exchange agreement with the University of Paris enables two UC students, Daniel Gerould and Muhsin Mahdi, to carry on their studies at the University of Paris. Gerould will study the history of culture, and Mahdi will continue his studies in the field of social thought.

Arthur Smith has been granted an exchange fellowship for study

Inter'dub sets regulation

Inter-Club Council at its first meeting under new officers voted to change the eligibility requirements for women wishing to join clubs. Under the new rule, which will be in effect for the rushing period at the beginning of the fall quarter, all women students in the University who are sixteen or older will be eligible. Previously, only girls who were high school graduates or had completed their physical education requirements were eligible for membership in the women’s clubs.

The new officers of the Council for the academic year of 1954-55 are: president, Ruth Kopel; secretary, Helen Wollack; treasurer, Gabriella Coen; social chairman, Bette Sotonoff; rushing chairman, Virginia Bickerstaff; service chairman, Joan Molner; publicity chairman, Rita Yalowitz.

AB opinions (from page 1)

which preceded their final approval has been that the content as well as the ideal of a sound liberal education should not be done great violence. I am considerably less concerned about the precise

C-Dance today at Ida Noyes

Student Union sponsors its first C Dance of the quarter tonight at 8 p.m. in the Cloister Club of Ida Noyes Hall. Tickets will be $1.50 per couple.

Suggested dress for this dance, which will be keyed to the mood of “April in Paris,” is suits for men and “dresses” for the women.

Noel Perlman, chairman of the SU dance department, and Joan Rapheal are in charge of the dance.

of History at the University of Madrid.

The Paris and Madrid universities have an agreement with UC to send students here. While the Paris program has been in effect since 1949 Smith is only the second student to be sent to the University of Madrid.

The William Rainey Harper fellowships considered the highest honor awarded by the University, were granted to Arthur Mc Lean in chemistry; Jacob J. Feldman in sociology, and George Wellworth in English. These awards carry a cash grant of $2,250. There were 1,400 applicants for the Harper fellowship.

point in a student’s career at which the Bachelor’s degree shall be granted than what that degree —whether the AB or the BS—represents in the way of a liberal education; for I believe that this degree should signify its possessor has a sound liberal education. The college is not necessarily the sole custodian of a liberal education, and it is quite possible and proper for the departments to continue the work begun in the college. Candidly, however, I think that some of the degree programs do overstress professional training at the expense of some elements desirable in a liberal education. Happily this is not true of most of the programs. The outline of the program-leading to the college Bachelor of Arts degree (as distinct from the joint degrees) contains a challenge to the faculties of both the college and the divisions. I believe that it offers the way to the development of the best liberal arts program that has yet been developed in this country.”

“Consider Hie new curriculum"

Charles Wegener (associate professor of humanities in the college): “The thing that seems to me most important to say about the way the new programs look from where I sit is that I consider the new college curriculum, with the addition of a year of tutorial studies, the greatest educational opportunity since Mark Hopkins felled his tree. I think we have

long needed such a thing in the college curriculum and see nothing in it inconsistent with the principles which we take so seriously. So far as the joint programs are concerned I think the problem now is not to be solved by debate but by action. I think most of them can be made to work and do the jobs which they were designed to do. The University decided last year that it wanted to do a different sort of job in undergraduate education. To accept the decision is to accept the task of doing the job.”

Programs offer opportunity

Donald Meiklejohn (associate professor of philosophy in the college): “The new programs offer a genuine opportunity for the College and the Departments to work together, and to that extent they surely are welcome. I suppose a

LAK visits dorms, tells girls his views

Receptions and dinners in each of the three Group-C women’s dorms were held Monday in honor of guest members of the administration and teaching staff of UC. The meetings between the girls of the residence halls and the administrative officers and faculty members were sponsored by the Interdorm Council and House Councils of Foster, Green, and Kelly Houses. These annual dinners offer the opportunity for women residents to become

acquainted' with both the guests and the administrative and educational policies of the University.

Guests at Green Hall were Chancellor and Mrs. Kimpton, Miss Margaret E. Perry, assistant dean in the college, Mark Ashin, assistant professor of English, and Meyer W. Isenberg, assistant professor of Humanities.

Topics ranging from curriculum to the housing problems in the University area were discussed and commented upon by both faculty and students. When asked if the major reason for the new AB changes in the College was to increase the enrollment, Chancellor Kimpton replied, “Definitely no. Tuition fees supply only 4 million of the 20 million dollar budget. The major portion of a school’s budget is always supplied by endowments, and the University of Chicago is one of the most heavily endowed institutions in the country.”

Kelly House was host to Robert E. Streeter, associate dean of the College, Mrs. Streeter, and Mrs. Rosalie Wax, assistant professor of anthropology in the College.

CJA drive to begin;

many enjoy benefits

The Combined Jewish Appeal (CJA) Drive on campus opens April 12. Funds will be solicited by CJA student workers throughout the week.

The Jewish Welfare Fund and the Jewish Federation of Chicago are the two partners in the Combined Jewish Appeal, together these two organizations and their affiliates, not only in the State of Israel and in the city of Chicago, but also in Europe. North Africa, the Middle East, and other parts of the United States. Combined Jewish Appeal funds are used for relief, rehabilitation, education, medical, and social welfare needs, and community betterment.

The principal beneficiary of the Combined Jewish Appeal is the Jewish Welfare fund, which receives 70 per cent of the money raised in the drive. Included in the organizations which benefit through Jewish Welfare Fund is the United Jewish Appeal.

Thirty per cent of the funds raised in the CJA drive goes to the Jewish Federation of Chicago.

good many of the college students doubt that the enterprise can be truly mutual and fear that the college as they have known it is done for. They should perhaps remember Plato’s argument (Republic Bo,ok LX) that the wise judge is the man who has experienced in both areas under consideration; moreover, it is of course true that no present students need elect any of the new plans. While I am deeply persuaded of the merits of the College curriculum, and because I think it is good, I think its tional inquiry t h a t lies ahead. There is some danger that the new boundary lines on the program charts will take on the status or the Korean 38th parallel, but my belief and hope is that both college and departments will find they have a good deal to gain by friendly interpenetration. Cer Dean of Students Robert Strozier, Carl Grip, director of the University housing system, and Mrs. Grip were guests at Foster Hall.

Chancellor Kimpton and Dean Strozier led an informal discussion on the new AB changes in Kelly Lounge following the dinners. Dean Strozier outlined the underlying motives and subsequent accomplishments of the field trips to high schools all over the country conducted by Chancellor Kimpton and him last summer. He expressed a strong feeling that the close rapport between the high schools and the College, almost non-existent in the past few years, is being strengthened again. Chancellor Kimpton stated that one of the important goals of the UC College plan is to strengthen American education on the secondary school level. He also assured the group that the new AB would permit transfers to graduate schools more easily than at present.

In answering a question from the floor, Chancellor Kimpton stated that exceptional high school students will still be encouraged to apply for admission before graduation from high school.

Affiliates of the Jewish Federation of Chicago are Michael Reese Hospital and Mandel Clinic, Mount Sinai Hospital, Winfield Tuberculous Hospital, Drexel Home for the Aged, the Parkview Home for the Aged, Orthodox Home for the Aged; the Jewish Community Centers, the Jewish Family and Community Service, the Jewish Children’s Bureau, the Jewish Vocational Service, and Rest Haven.

If each organization now affiliated with the CJA had to organize and run its own fund raising effort, the expense would be tremendous. The combining of these many organizations into CJA cuts down on expense and the times a potential contributor is approached for funds. Funds are only cob lected once a year.

According to Brina Jaffee and Bernard Farkas, CJA co-chairmen, “The goal this year on campus is set for $4,500.”

Money raised from the performance of the “Dybbuk” last Sunday night will be added to the campus contributions.

Newsmen, UCers to meet

.Four Chicago newsmen will meet with UC students for an informal bull-session on the journalistic profession Tuesday at 4:30 p.m. ot Alumni House. Free tickets are still available for the session at Alumni House.

The four newsmen, all alumni of UC, ore: Leon Stoltz, chief editorial writer of the Chicago Tribune, Emmett Dedmon, assistant Sunday editor for the Sun Times, Helen Wells, Sun-Times women's editor, Richard Philbrick, Tribune staff member.

tainly, if they are to succeed, the new programs must be viewed not as the end but as a new beginning.” .

Scholarship tests given to students

“The number of Chicago area man of the scholarship and fet high school students taking the lowship committee. “Four hun UC scholarship examinations this dred and thirty-nine students took year hit an all time high,” an- the exams this year as compared no unced Robert M. Strozier, chair- ;to 90 students last year.” Page 4

THE CHICAGO MAROON

April 9, 1954

Issued once weekly by the publisher^ The Chicago Maroon, at the publication office, 5706 South University Avenue, Chicago 37, Illinois. Telephones: Editorial Office, Midway 3-0800, Ext. 1010; Business and Advertising Offices, Midway 3-0800, Ext. 1009. Distributed free of charge, and subscriptions by moil, $3 per year. Business Office hours: 1 to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday.

b Arthur Brown Richard E. Ward

editor-in-chief managing editor

News editors: Naomi Birnbaum, Allen Jonger

News Feature editor: Nellie Stoneman

Feature editor: Daniel Queen

Sports editor: Paul A. Hoffman

Copy editor: Joy Burboch

Advertising manager: Reva Brown

Production manager: Joanna Herlihy

Copy staff: Jerry Ex, Pom Brown, Shirley Long, Jock Burboch, William Brandon

Photographers: Joe Wolf, Richard Kluckholn

Editorial staff: Robert Bloch Poul Breslow, Sondra Epstein, Leslie Foster, Suzanne Friedman, Rolpn B. Hirsch, Roberta Hopkins, Arlene Kramer, Jan Majde, C. Roy Maisch, Robert Mc Cluskie, Spike Pinney, David Schlessinger, Mitchell Slein, Judy Smith, Franz Snyder, Horry Whiteley, Neal Mermall, Justin Johnson, Wolf Roder, Stephen Cohen, Frank G. Ternenyi, Richard Herwitt, Brina Bailin, Dione Epstein, Bob Quinn, Brina Joffee, Elaine Pomper, Warren Spachner, Miriam Garfin, John Twomey, Rene Jonos, Al Fortier, Karl Rodman, Davis Bobrow, Lennie Friedman

Sign Bill of Rights

' Several years ago, at a county fair in Wisconsin, petitioners circulating the Declaration of Independence found to their amazement that people were afraid to sign this document. Today, in this same Blate of Wisconsin, people who are no longer afraid to exercise their democratic rights have collected, in a few short weeks, 200,000 signatures on a petition to recall Senator Joseph R. Mc Carthy as one of the leading instigators of the hysteria that makes people fear the jeaffirmation of America’s most cherished documents.

It is in this spirit of reaffirmation of these principles in the face of the opposition of men like Mc Carthy that the Academic Freedom Week committee has launched a petition campaign, presenting the Bill of Rights for signature by students. The campaign was begun last Monday with the signatures of Dean Strozier and other administration and faculty members.

A signature to the Bill of Rights today means even more than the Vote of Congress that passed it over 150 years ago. For today, even more than in the days when Thomas Jefferson and his followers proposed the Ten Amendments, people in positions of influence wish to see these rights suppressed and forgotten. But it is hard to forget a document that thousands or millions have read and signed. This petition will show that we Americans are still conscious of our heritage of democratic rights.

Welcome Book Exchange

In terms of the ends it was meant to serve, the original Student Government Book Exchange was a magnificent conception. Here, for the first time, was an agency whereby books bought because a course required them could be passed on to future scholars and where economy conscious UC students (and which of us isn’t) could purchase valued additions to their libraries at minimal cost.

The grand conception, however, never quite came off. Located in one of the obscurer recesses of Cobb Hall, the Exchange soon found itself suffering from an excessive lack of customers. Many students didn’t know it existed, more didn’t know where it was. Even when book-hunting students conquered the nemesis of ignorance and found themselves confronted by the door of the exchange they usually found themselves locked out. They were, they found, victims of the infrequent and irregular hours when the Exchange operated. One year, in fact, the Exchange failed to open for the first three weeks of the quarter, the time, it need hardly be stated, when the service was most heavily needed.

This quarter, however, things have changed. Student Government has moved the Exchange to Reynolds Club and given it a rational set of business hours. In terms of convenience to the entire campus, it is doubtful that a more convenient location could be found. The large number of students who frequent the Reynolds Club may now’, in passing, drop in on the Exchange to browse and perhaps buy before going on about their business. No one, it is certain, would have thought of “dropping in” on a cubby hole among the steam pipes of Cobb basement. The change means greater use of the book exchange, a better selection of books and a few savings for hardpressed students. It is, finally, the type of solid, practical student service that Student Government can do so well and which the campus needs so badly.

Student Government is due congratulations and many thinks for the resuscitation of its once magnificent conception.

Letters Wonts self-expression

The behavior this year and last of 1SL in Student Government and the All Campus Civil Liberties Committee, as seen from the MAROON and from visits to these bodies, reminds me of nothing

so much as the following fable:

A certain well known traveling entertainer owned a remarkable parrot which could do long division and extract square roots, and what is more, could design bridges and discourse at length on politics and literature. When the entertainer first discovered the remarkable gifts of this bird he was very happy and said to himself, “Now I shall be able to travel about and amaze spectators throughout the land, and I shall be famous.”

But he amazed no one. It chanced that his first audience was composed entirely of ignorant farmers who could not appreciate the erudition and subtlety of the bird. When they told their friends merely that they had seen a talking parrot, their friends said, '‘That is nothing new. Why should one pay merely to see a talking parrot?” So the entertainer grew increasingly poor, and he sought to find a way to recapture his audiences.

At last he thought of a plan. He acquired an ordinary mongrel dog, and at his next performance placed the mongrel on the stage along with the parrot. When the parrot spoke people thought they were listening to the mongrel, and they told their friends about this wonderful performance, and the entertainer prospered and was exceedingly glad.

As the entertainer’s fame grew, so did that of the dog. People came from far and wide to listen to him, and not a day went by that he did not receive telegrams and flowers and scholarships and samples of every kind of dog food. For the first time in his life the dog was well taken care of, and in appearance he soon gave no hint of his lowly origin. Meanwhile, the parrot, who was ignored by all, received each day only a few grains of birdseed, just as in the days when the entertainer was poor. Naturally he grew leaner and more unhealthy as the days went by.

One day the parrot died of parrot fever. Now that it was too late, the entertainer felt very sorry for the bird, and for what he had done. But tenderness soon gave way to realism. His livelihood gone, he could no longer afford to feed any extra mouths. So he took the dog away from its special food and belongings, and put it out in the gutter with all the other mongrels and locked the door. ‘‘Good luck,*’ he thought. ‘‘How wil you, ever get along in the gutter after all this fine care?”

But the dog felt otherwise. “Thank God!” he thought. “Hell, I’m no Leonardo Da Vinci, and this lightning calculating stuff is just sublimation!”

With an ever-present faith in the value of self-expression.

Bob Hellman

Leaves SRP

At the SRP caucus of Sunday, April 4, a member of SRP was accused of having violated the Student Code while acting in the name of SRP. It was feared that this action may have endangered SRP's legal status on this campus. Led by a certain faction of SRP, the caucus decided to investigate the action of its member. A 15-minute times limit was set, and no copies of the Student Code were consulted during this investigation.

No one except the defendant presented (or had) any facts concerning the case. Members of the aforementioned faction engaged in dilatory Invective; the immediate expulsion of the defendant was moved, in the middle of proceedings, and seconded; this was ruled out of order by a fair-minded chairman.

An irrational atmosphere arose, as the defendant was accused of being a detriment to the party by a member of one day’s standing. Feeling that his case was being denied fair consideration, and that he was being attacked on extraneous political grounds, the defendant resigned from SRP; he was followed by three other members who also felt he was denied fair treatment.

During the next two days the action of the resigned member was discussed with Eli Stein, chairman of the Committee on Recognized Student Organizations. It was determined that in no way could SRP be held responsible for his action; and that, were SRP actually responsible, the resignation of a member would in no way lessen SRP’s responsibility.

These facts were reported to the SRP caucus held Wednesday, April 7. Knowing that the people who had resigned, with the members who sympathized with them, wished to return to the caucus if they wer^ welcome, and feeling that an injustice had been done during the previous caucus, I moved the following resolution:

“In view of the fact that the atmosphere of the previous caucus was not conducive to sound judgment;

And in view of the fact that perusal of the Student Code makes it obvious that there was no clear cut threat to the organizational existence of the SRP in the action of Mr ;

The caucus regrets any unfairness that may have resulted from the atmosphere and conduct of that meeting.”

Again tempers rose; again personal attacks were made on the first resigned member. Many said in effect, that since SRP was becoming ‘‘respectable” It should be purged of members unpopular with the campus as a whole, no matter what their competence or past service to SRP.

Eventually the new middle-of-theroad members of SRP, led by an authoritarian faction of the old membership, defeated the resolution 26 to 20. Feeling that the SRP that I had joined last Fall no longer existed, seeing no further hope of reuniting the two factions into an SRP I could work and agree with, and regarding the faction called “SRP” as an Illiberal one, I announced my resignation from the party.

I am not a member of either faction discussed above; I have acted independently for what I considered to be the best interests of what SRP had been. I urge the students on this campus not to support the present unprincipled party.

Bob Floyd (Independent-Phy. Sci.) (Member of Student Government)

WWw Urwm K’ RM-ako Mk. Con Ums sm Umk Um Ha. Croons hair. rdkvtsdn Mts. removes ko Kdandnrtf. Cat Wi Wrwt Croam-Oil, Charlie! law a* Ng.

Hum stifles college

The college developed a concept of a liberal education embodying a certain basic amount of knowledge and analytical skills in a certain number of fields of great import to the life of man in our modern society. It is an integrated whole which will be destroyed by cutting out any vital component.

I think that the idea of integrating general and specialized education is a good one, and that doing it in the traditional four years would be nice. In theory, there was to be enough dead wood between the college and the divisions so that an essentially complete program could be put together in four years.

As the programs have come out, the professional schools and the Social Science division have shown their appreciation of the college program by leaving it intact.

The Biological Science division has retained 10 comps. This means that a student placing out of two comps will miss two courses including OMP or History. These integration courses, with some justification have been called the meat of the college; they are very important in establishing the relationship between the college courses and leaving the student with a conception of how to use his education. The difficulty could be cleared up easily enough by employing the Nat. Sci. Ill variant of OMP and some other “comp saving” device.

The Physical Science division, either from the Inherent difficulties of the field or personal prejudices, seem to have left the divisional courses unaltered while reducing the 14 comps to a ridiculously low level of six comps. However, by the ingenious use of all the “comp saving” devices, they came out mising only two comps for a complete program. Hum III and Soc. Ill would be the most probable omislons. Both are important, the former by giving experience in criticism is an important part of the literary education as well as the means of providing needed writing experience for those placing out of English. Soc. Ill is obviously an important course for a responsible citizen, teaching economics and political philosophy.

It would seem that the two comps could be worked in or taken care of on the deficiency basis. If the specialized studies really need so much time then this division should not guarantee the sacred four year BS.

The maze of programs in the Humanities division presents, with few exceptions, by far the worst blow to a liberal education. They cut down the number of comps to seven or eight and did not use any “time saving” devices. As a result some provide for only one course in Soc., one in Nat. Sci., and only one terminal course. In the light of the present world situation, the great importance of science and the need for social understanding, the flagrant omission of these sequences is utterly absurd.

Unfortunately, when they cut courses, they do not merely cut down the intensity of work on a given problem: they hack out the problem all together, leaving the concept of a liberal education a bloody farce. Integration is impossible. Any such reduction is decidedly out of spirit with the announced purpose of the present change; and the university must suffer losses in prestige if It permits its liberal education standards to be generally lowered or the present college program to be shredded.

The complete college programs in the professions and Social Sciences division are encouraging and the others can be improved by the appropriate “comp saving” devices. If the divisions feel they cannot be bothered to make the needed adjustments, it is their responsibility of the university to see that our high concept of a liberal education is essentially maintained. John Bucher

Exchange information

I dare send you this letter, ought to my very great Interest in starting a friendly relation through correspondence with some young American students, in order to get a better mutual knowledge of both ourselves and our countries, while discussing on all sort of subjec^ and ideas. I shall be glad to exchange printed matters, pictures, etc., with those persons who could like it, too.

I am a 23 years old Uruguayan, student at our University here in Montivideo. Those students who may wish to write back to me, can do so in English or Spanish to:

Ernesto Rodriguez, BEL.

ALTO PERU 2010, Montevideo—URUGUAY

I hope Sir, that it may be possible for you to make this wish of mine, known amongst your students there.

It only rests to me to thank you Sir, very much for your kind attention to the present. Ernesto Rodriguez

Obstructs discussion

Lest it be hastily assumed that during Academic Freedom Week we of the University of Chicago can only point the accusing finger at other schools, we feel it necessary to report on a recent and sad experience closer home.

We proposed some time ago to hold a forum on student civil liberties with speakers putting forward the views of various student political organizations, sponsored by as many of the campus political clubs as we could. After consultation it was agreed that speakers would be invited to present the views of the SDA, the Young Democrats, the Young Republicans, the Young Socialist League, and the Labor Youth League (and any other national student groups we could find). But suddenly it appeared that Mr. Birenbaum objected to the inclusion of a speaker from the Labor Youth League (the LYL), claiming that (1) he saw no reason for hearing them at all, (2) they were not a registered student organization, and (3) it would appear that the three sponsoring clubs were somehow endorsing the LYL. To overcome the third objection the posters for the meeting were revised to make it absolutely clear that an individual speaker —not the organization — was being sponsored as part of a symposium of different viewpoints But Mr. Birenbaum persisted in his three arguments. Knowing that he could hardly deny the right of student groups to hear speakers of their own choosing, he now demanded written certificates of sponsorship from the various sponsoring organizations, stating that the group approved sponsoring the speaker for the LYL on campus, to be signed not merely by the chairman but by the executive council or its equivalent.

Mr. Birenbaum cannot but realize that aside from the natural timidity which this novel move created among members of all three organizations, it also necessitated hours of extra work and revising of plans to carry out this procedure. It is precisely this type of “subtle” blocking of free discussion which is the greatest obstacle we believe towards genuine civil liberties.

If Mr. Birenbaum intends to protect us from something or other by instituting procedures of this sort, let him come out and say so and put his proposal into the code of student regulations, which at present provide no special rules for sponsoring speakers from organizations which are not themselves recognized student clubs. Friends of academic freedom then will know just where they stand. But this present procedure only stirs up repeated (and justified) resentments, gives aid and comfort to the very restrictors of student life he claims to oppose, and demonstrates a lamentable ignorance of the harsh lessons taught by recent years of political hysteria — that civil liberties cannot be defended unless they are impartially defended for all.

Ernst Callenbach Deborah Meier Politics Club members

Your family might be interested in this ad, too!

TAKE YOUR CAR “IN YOUR POCKET"

OVERSEAS DELIVERY PLAN

Have your own economical Hillman Minx delivered wherever you land. See everything there is to see—and save up to $400 doing it. Mail the coupon below and learn how inexpensive it is to take that "dream trip” abroad •

I ROOTES MOTORS INC. Dept. (J-1

| 505 Park Avenue, N. Y. 22, N. Y.

I Please send me your free booklet giving | • details of the Rootes Overseas Delivery I Plan, without obligation.

| NAME

I

| ADDRESS

I

| City Otate April 9, 1954

THE CHICAGO MAROON

Pag* 5

WUCB expands schedule again To hold, forum

for AF Week

WUCB, the student radio station of the University, has started the quarter with an improved and expanded program schedule. Two of the new programs, produced by the National Association of Educational Broadcasters, are “The Jeffersonian Heritage,” a series of 13 dramatizations of the life and thought of the author of the Declaration of Independence, and “The Ways of Mankind,” an introduction to anthropology. Both “The Jeffersonian Heritage,” which stars Claude Raines, and “The Ways of Mankind” were produced under a Ford Foundation grant, and 

George Probst, Director of the University Radio Office, and Robert Redfield, Professor of Anthropology, were active in their

production.

Highlighting WUCB’s schedule of popular music is “Wheel of Fortune,” a documentary history of the work of female .vocalist Kay Starr. The program, produced in cooperation with Miss Starr and Capitol Records, exclusively for WUCB, will be a general introduction to a more detailed program next year. The show, starting Monday at 8:30, will feature extremely rare early recordings. New news commentary to start

A precedent for WUCB will be broken by the news commentary program “Perspective,” to be heard on Fridays at 7:45. In keeping with its policy of not attempting to duplicate services of other AM stations, WUCB has avoided world news in the past. However, “Perspective” offers a general analysis of the news of an entire week, a thing not often found on commercial radio. The program does not attempt to cover latebreaking scoops, but as its title

ITS ALL A MATTER OF TASTE

ssas FMarilyn Servant University of Artz

implies, news from the vantage point of a few days later.

Though not definitely scheduled at this time, WUCB will soon have a program of jazz which will feature rare collector’s items. The specific time will be announced sometime next week.

Bedtime stories begun

Each Wednesday on WUCB, the last live program of the evening will be “Bedtime Story,” readings of short stories selected for their late-at-night appropriateness. This week the featured story will be “Man From the South,” a selection from “Someone Like You,” an anthology of stories by Raoul Dahl.

Other highlights this week are the second in a series of “American Folksay” recordings featuring Pete Seeger at 9 Tuesday, recordings^of Aaron Copland on “Americana,” and a special NSA election interview on Midway Microphone.

MONDAY EVENING

7:30—Early News

7:35—Music Mart

8:00—The Jeffersonian Heritage 2 “The Democrat and the Commisar''

8:30—Wheel of Fortune

9:00—Vox Parnasse

iff

Keats Poetry for Humanities 1 9:30—Late News

TUESDAY EVENING

7:30—Early News

7:35—Ten Spot

7:45—Guest Star with Danny Kaye 8:00—Americana

Music by Aaron Copland 9:00—Folk Music

“American Folksay,” featuring Pete Seeger

9:30—The Ways of Mankind 3 “Desert Soliliquy,” a study in education

10:00—Late News

WEDNESDAY EVENING

7:30—Early News

7:35—Jazz

8:00—Das Deutscher Program

9:00—The Jeffersonian Heritage 3 “Divided We Stand"

9:30—Late News

9:35—Bedtime Story

"Man from the South,” by

Raoal Dahl

THURSDAY EVENING

7:30—Early News

7:35—Ten Spot 7:45—Midway Microphone

Special NSA Election Interview 8:00—Masterworks of Music 9:00—Ways of Mankind 4

“When Greek Meets Greek,’’ a Study in Values

9:30—Late News

FRIDAY EVENING

7:30—Early News

7:35—Ten Spot 7:45—Perspective

International News Commentary 8:00—World of Music 9:00—Masterworks of France 9:30—Late News

Schedule Subject to Change

When you come right down to it, you smoke for one simple reason enjoyment And smoking enjoyment is all a matter of taste. Yes, taste is what counts in a cigarette. And Luckies taste better.

Two facts explain why Luckies taste better. First, L.S./M.F.T.—Lucky Strike means fine tobacco ... light, mild, goodtasting tobacco. Second, Luckies are actually made better to taste better always round, firm, fully packed to draw freely and smoke evenly.

So, for the enjoyment you get from better taste, and only from better taste, Be Happy—Go Lucky. Get a pack or a carton of better-tasting Luckies today.

V cleaner, ^KS?M^ ’ ktb^*?^ Sition,Wend, \yilliatn Haupt Holy Cross Collet

The political aspects of academic freedom will be discussed in a forum on Tuesday afternoon as part of Lie celebration of Academic Freedom Week. The forum will feature speakers representing the viewpoints of various national political organizations which involve students. The speakers and organizations that will participate are: Eli Stein (Students for Democratic Action, UC chapter), Bogdan D e n i t c h (Young Socialist League, UC chapter), Earl Durham (Labor Youth League, Illinois Regional Chairman), Markus Raskin (Young Democrats, UC chapter), D. R. Anderson (Socialist Party, UC chapter), unannounced speaker (Young Republicans, UC chapter).

The purpose of this forum is to bring out the viewpoints held on academic freedom by those groups which interest themselves on all phases of political life in the US. The meeting will allow a brief ten minute statement by the speakers upon the position that their organization has on the preservation of freedom on the campuses.

The meeting is being sponsored by Students for Democratic Action and the Politics Club. It will take place in Rosenwald 2, at 4 p.m. Tuesday, April 12.

The final deadline for petitions for candidates in the forthcoming National Student Association (NSA) Election is noon Tuesday.

Petitions may be secured from the Student Government office. When the forty needed signatures have been obtained, the petition should be returned to the SG office. Any UC student with a full course of studies on the quadrangles, at least a C average, and more than one quarter residence, is eligible to be a candidate.

The campus-wide NSA election will be on April 22 and 23.

Business confab to forecast future

The future of business will be forecast by 28 national business executives at the second annual management conference of the business school and the Executive Program Club Saturday, April 17, at the Conrad Hilton.

An address on “The Business Outlook” by Sumner H. Slichter, Lamont professor at Harvard, will open the one day meeting of 1,000 Chicago businessmen.

Dean John A. Jeuck'of the business school will welcome the merchants at 10 a.m. Robert E. Wilson, UC trustee and chairman of the board of Standard Oil (Indiana), will preside.

From 2:30 to 4:30 p.m. professors and businessmen will lead five panel discussions on building an organization, capital sources and needs, human behavior and industry, selling and the social sciences, and the small business.

SC...

(from page 1)

read by Peter Greene (ISL-Bi Sci), chairman of the academic freedom committee, dealing with the expulsion of non-European students from universities in the Union of South Africa heard a form letter from Sen. Paul A. Doulas (D-Ill.) about pending Senate action of deduction of tuition for income tax purposes.

Academic freedom week took part in a debate between SRP members who said SG should take a more active part in Academic Freedom Week and ISL representatives who insisted that SG is doing all it should heard former SG president Roger Woodworth (ISL-Law) suggest that the assembly commend Chancellor Kimpton and other university officials for resisting attempts of the Jenner committee to black-ball professors.

COM,, THE AMERICAN TOBACCO COMPANY

"^ TO^

1 Eteanor C. Ben Hfcanrf

1 ^K vairwlworo**"

Where’s your jingle?

It’s easier than you think to make $25 by writing a Lucky Strike jingle like those you see in this ad. Yes, we need jingles —and we pay $25 for every one we use! So send as many as you like to: Happy-Go-Lucky, P. O. Box 67, New York 46, N. Y.

LUCKIES TASTE BETTER

CLEANER, FRESHER, SMOOTHER!

MONTHLY REVIEW ASSOCIATES invite you to hear Dr. Scott Nearing on

"Con West Europe Recover?" Tonight, April 9 — 8:30 p.m.

Woodrow Wilson Room

116 S. Michigan

Student Rate 75c

JCOMO PIZZERIA

1520 E. 55th St.

• Bar-be-cue chicken • Bar-be-cue ribs Delivery Anywhere

FA 4-5525 Page 6 THE CHICAGO MAROON * April 9, 1954

L ., — .llll.l II. — I । ' I . — ' ""I — 1 I I „ | —M|

Campuses reassert freedoms

Students, faculty question suspensions, loyalty oaths

Boston faculty group chides administration

At Boston Universify, last February, the chapter of the American Association of University Professors challenged the University administration for the suspension of Maurice Halperin, who had refused to testify before the Jenner committee.

The statement said, “It appears to us that the principles of democracy are threatened when civilian review boards bypass the organized system of law and act as judge and jury on charges which, if true, should be used for indictment before the bar of justice.”

Boston University News

Connecticut supports Benton's statement

In March, thirty-eight members of the University of Connecticut faculty signed a statement expressing faith in former Senator Benton’s charge against Mc Carthy.

In the statement, the professors declared that the truth of Benton’s charges was “naturally strengthened” when Mc Carthy “chose to avoid the issue in the best manner of what he likes to call ‘fifthamendment Communists.’ ”

Connecticut Campus

Swarthmore panel censures totalitarianism

At Swarthmore a panel on “Religious Aspects of Academic Freedom” was held at the end of February. Speakers from Universities and schools in the area appeared.

According to the Swarthmore Phoenix, the last speaker, Merril Bush of Friends Central School, “made perhaps the most profound effect upon the audience.” He raised the question of the kind of society that makes freedom possible and rules out totalitarianisms. Replying to a question on loyalty oaths he said, “Loyalty is a thing of the spirit—it cannot be forced, can only be won.”

Wisconsin reaffirms tradition

At the University of Wisconsin, the faculty, the students, and administrative bodies have reaffirmed a traditional university policy toward recognition of campus organizations and approval of speakers. Last November the administrative “student life and interests committee” completed a report after almost 10 months of study.

The report came out of a controversy about the rights of certain left wing organizations, particularly those on the attorney general’s “subversive activities list.” According to the report, the only such organization recognized on the campus was the Wisconsin chapter of

the Labor Youth League.

Encourage organizations

The report stated that “The University of Wisconsin encourages students to form organizations for educational advancement of their interests in all fields ...” "The University could not, of course, tolerate any organization which in its purposes or actions violated the laws of the United States or of the state of Wisconsin ” “Understanding that these organizations” (the former) "perform a function of education complementary to that of the classroom and are a preparation for a self-directed group activity after college, the faculty encourages participation in them.”

The report went on to point out

Copland in question; cancel lecture series

Aaron Copland, one of America’s leading musicians, was denied the right to lecture at the University of Colorado this year. Although he had been invited to deliver a series of guest lectures, he was later refused permission to speak on the grounds that he was “controversial.”

It all began when Congressman Busbey (R., Ill.) objected to Copland being played at Eisenhower’s inauguration.

The story was picked up by

the St Louis Post-Dispatch. When the story reached the Colorado campus it went through a series of channels until it reached the president of the university who cancelled the invitation to Copland.

Upon hearing of the University’s action, the student body was “outraged.” The Colorado Daily took a poll of the faculty and found that 64 per cent felt that he should have been invited as a musician, 6 per cent said no, and 29 per cent had no comment.

Government passes resolution

The student government passed a resolution to the effect that: Because the complete facts were not known and because lack of information leads to doubts, etc., and because outer attacks again seem to be focusing on the University

“the possible consequences of joining local groups affiliated with national political organizations designated for certain purposes of the government as subversive.” It said that “Inclusion of an organization in this list does not affect its status as a lawfully functioning organization nor does it establish as a legal fact that it is subversive.”

Organization recognized

“Since organizations listed as subversive pursuant to law, are now permitted lawfully to operate in our state and nation, and since the University cannot prevent its students from being members of such organizations, we believe that the University should register such organizations when they operate on the campus.”

Among the reasons for this policy the report stated that “Stupositibn as a democratic leader, “resolved that all pertinent facts be made available.”

In addition the American Association of University Professors passed a resolution deploring the cancellation of Copland’s lectures, but defeated another resolution reinviting Copland by a vote of 61-40. However, a resolution calling for further inviting of guest lecturers on capability passed. It read in part:

Faculty committee to support Academic freedom

“All faculty senate committees which hereafter invited individuals to appear on this campus be requested to support the principles of academic freedom by disregarding legally unsubstantiated political criticism directed at prospective lecturers or performers and consider only the individual’s competence In his chosen field.”

Texas protests Mc Carthy's talk

The selection of Joseph Mc Carthy as the principal speaker at the San Jacinto Day Celebration has been protested by a large number of students at the University of Texas. The action was undertaken by a group of Texas students last Tuesday.

The spokesman for the group, Franklin Spears, president of the Students’ Association, said that an audience of 2,000 was expected at a planned mass meeting to be held on Tuesday, April 6. In the meantime, a petition was drawn up and plans for its circulation were

being discussed. The petition began with a reference to H. R. Cullen, a Houston millionaire, who had in the name of the San Jacinto chapter of the So* of the Republic of Texas, invited Mc Carthy to speak. The petition went on to say in part:

Invitation questioned

“Why is it fitting that out of all the men of public trust in the nation, Mr. Cullen should be permitted to invite the one man who has done more than any other to undermine the basic American principles of fair play and free speech ?

“By what remote logic was Mc Carthy selected as a spokesman for Texas independence? With increasing and disturbing regularity he has been coming to Texas to confer with a few wealthy men who do not represent the people as a whole. Why, may we ask, should Texas become the crucible for the ambitions of the Senator who has been charged with a great multitude of wrongs in Washington and who is at this very moment under serious attack in his own home state?

dents must be given the freedom of discussion permitted citizens of the United States and of the State of Wisconsin, if they are to be trained for responsible citizenship.”

Boosts discussion

The report went on to say “Recognizing the contribution of extracurricular activities to the educational experience of students, the Committee encourages discussion, under student direction, of ideas by persons actively associated with those ideas.

“The Board of Regents said in 1894: ‘Whatever may be the limitations which trammel inquiry elsewhere, we believe that the great State University of Wisconsin shall ever encourage that continual and fearless sifting and winnowing by which alone the truth can be found.’ The Regents said in 1922 that this statement shall be ‘applicable to teaching in the classroom and to the use of University halls for public addresses.’ In 1949 and again in 1952, the Regents stated that ‘an opportunity critically to study the proposals and claims of systems alien to our own is the intellectual right of every student.’ ”

Bill of Rights confirmed

Concluding, the report said, “Students enjoy the privileges of American citizens guaranteed by the Constitution and the Bill of Rights.”

In December, shortly after the report was issued, the Wisconsin Labor Youth League chapter was granted the right to present a address on the University campus by an editor of the Daily Worker. Senate backing

Later in December, the Student Senate lent its backing to the administrative report. Soon afterward, the University faculty voted unanimously to support the stand.

The Madison Capital Times called the position “an excellent reaffirmation of the duty of a university to promote free inquiry.” The Racine Journal Times said it was “a clear test of the freedom of choice and the freedom of speech.” Three other newspapers in Mc Carthy’s state of Wisconsin published similar editorial comment.

Stands for democracy

“There comes a time in the history of every assault on democracy when the people, the final jurors of our public men, must stand for democracy or risk the only historical alternative, some form of tyranny We will not be silent longer Better to leave the memories of San Jacinto to the dignity of silence than to have them blasphemed by an irresponsible demagogue.”

At the first open meeting of the group, over 800 students turned out to listen to speakers who were for and against the petition. The meeting was orderly, but tense. Afterwards 418 of those assembled signed the petition. Spears emphasized that they were acting as private citizens rather than in any official capacity. Spears explained that the meting was called as an open forum to discuss the merits of both sides of the issue.

Do not question right to speak

“We are not here to question the right of any man to speak anywhere,” he asserted. “Our sole purpose is to entertain discussion about petitions the Sons of the Republic to reconsider its choice of speakers. Let the world know that Mc Carthy speaks for himself, not for Texans.”

One student, a loose-jointed

Michigan students state methods to protect investigated students

Faced with a possible investigation at the University of Michigan by the Un-American Activities Committee, the Student Legislature at Michigan made a series of recommendations to safeguard students who might be called to testify.

The statement passed on Nov. 19, 1953, was made to overrule present University regulations providing for possible suspension or expulsion for “conduct unbecoming a student” or for damaging “the good name of the University.”

The statement, reads in part:

“Student Legislature believes that any student called to testify before the House Un-American Activities Committee or any other Congressional investigating committee should not be subject to charges by the University disciplinary rules:

1) “merely because he has been called to testify.

2) “because of his refusal to testify.”

The policy also states that any cases based on charges arising out of the committee hearings should be handled by a joint judiciary

Columbia faculty confers on dismissals of teachers

At Columbia University, cases of faculty dismissal involving academic freedom will be subject to the consultation of the whole faculty, according to a memorandum released by the president’s office, in what is probably Columbia’s first formal acceptance of this procedure. In January the president’s office stated:

“There has been no instance in the recent history of the University of the dismissal of any teacher where the issue of academic freedom was involved. In the event that such a consideration ever arose, the colleagues of such a teacher would surely be consulted.”

Recently, the issue of academic freedom had aroused a great deal of controversy and organized activity on the part of the faculties. Thus far only three of the twelve faculties in the university have adopted statements on academic freedom: those of the College,

Texan, spoke for several minutes and then added: “AU I came here for was to sign my name on that little petition. I don’t want Mc Carthy to speak for me.” As the crowd broke into loud clapping, a petition was passed to the speaker, who signed on stage and then sauntered out.

Discussion cut short

After the discussion was cut short by the late hour, signing continued with the aid of flashlights and cigarette lighters. By the following Friday, 884 signatures had been collected. Future plans for the petition include the setting up of booths at dapces and other university functions. The expected total is hoped to exceed 1,500.

At last reports, the petition signing campaign was gathering momentum. The Texans, rallying about their cherished heritages, have united in the opposition and have called on their fellow Texans everywhere by ending their petition by saying:

“Accordingly, we the undersigned respectfully petition the Sons of the Republic of Texas to reconsider the choice of Sen. Mc Carthy as speaker on San Jacinto Day as offensive to the good judgment of Texans everywhere.”

council prior to any disciplinary action by the University. This provision was included in event . a student witness claims before the committee that he is representing opinion of the administration, faculty or student body or if charges against students were brought for any reason other than those listed in the policy statement.

The third provision of the statement emphasizes that membership in the Communist Party per se is not a violation of federal or State law.

The policy, if followed, by the University of Michigan would protect any student called to testify or refusing to testify unless, as a witness, he violated federal or State law or attempted to represent the University committee or any segment thereof.

Philosophy, and Political Science. However, four other faculties are planning to adopt similar statements this spring.

Although Dr. Kirk, President of Columbia University, had not publicly condemned congressional inquiries into alleged subversive activities in colleges, he affirmed that the Administration does not judge failures to testify before a legislative investigation as automatic ground for dismissal of a teacher. Dr. Kirk and organized faculty opinion agree that each case involving the removal of a teacher should be determined on its own merits.

 April 9, 1954

THE CHICAGO MAROON

Page 7

Schools throughout country conduct Freedom Weeks

by Mitchell Stein

Academic freedom has become one of the major concerns of students on campuses throughout the country. In almost all universities and colleges activities and events centered around an academic freedom week have either taken place or are being planned for the immediate future.

At the City College of New York (CCNY), Academic Freedom Week was held from April 5-12. Buttons were distributed that read “I’m not scared” ... A poll was taken on the subject, “Conformity on the campus” Forums, dances, debates and films rounded out

the week.

Also at CCNY The Observation Post, the school paper, sponsored a series of debates. In

the first or second week in April Plans were drafted for the founding of an intercollegiate paper to deal with all views on Academic Freedom. Their stated objective is to “stimulate activity

commenting on the week, the Stu- *n defense of academic freedom urging student organizations

dent Council president said: "Academic Freedom Week will be successful if it brings to the students and faculty a greater awareness of the freedoms we enjoy and must defend.”

At Hunter College the Hunter Arrow reported that their Academic Freedom Week was set for

to take an active role on this question.”

An exhibition showing what students are thinking on the subject of Academic Freedom by showing papers from other schools is planned by Sarah Lawrence College in New York.

Academic Freedom Week is the second week in April. Letters are being sent to all college newspapers for material for the exhibit.

Roosevelt College in Chicago held their Academic Freedom Week the first week in April. Green feather buttons were distributed throughout the school. A four page Academic Freedom Week supplement was featured by the Roosevelt Torch During the week polls, debates, displays were held.

Kimpton hails UC role in investigations; noted educators present views on freedom

Last June, the Senate subcommittee on internal security subpoenaed a group of University of Chicago personnel. In his State of the University address last October, Chancellor Kimpton made the following statement about the investigation and about academic freedom at the University;

“Last spring certain members of our faculty and staff were investigated by the Senate subcommittee on internal security. This challenge to the integrity and loyalty of our University was met with foresight, with dignity, and with honor. It was symbolic of this occasion that Ernest W. Burgess and Anton J. Carlson, full of years, of wisdom, and of services to enrich our way of life, were called into a private session and, when they asked for a public hearing, were denied it. These men have a special meaning for us. Ernest W. Burgess and Anton Carlson, with their learning, willingness to dissent, and devotion to freedom, symbolize the best tradition of our University. May we always continue it. To preserve it is to make our contribution to the best that is in the American tradition.”

Universities abuse

the joint” for various radical, religious, and other differences, he said that this “free play of variety” is the basis of our freedom, and is something that “professional patriots” never learn.

Fear invades schools — Hutchins

Robert M. Hutchins, associate director of the Ford Foundation and former chancellor of the University of Chicago, said in an article in Look magazine of March 9

“Education is impossible in many parts of the United States today because free inquiry and free discussion are impossible. In these communities, the teacher of economics, history or political science cannot teach. Even the teacher of literature must be careful.

“Competence or professional skill will not protect the teacher. In the investigations that have

Only if every single citizen feels duty bound to do his share in this defense are the constitutional rights secure. Thus, a duty is imposed on everyone which no one must evade, notwithstanding the risks and dangers for him and his family “It is therefore in the present situation especially important for the intellectuals to do their duty. I see this duty in refusing to cooperate in any undertaking that violates the constitutional rights of the individual. This holds in particular for all inquistions that are concerned with the private life and the political affiliations of the citizens. Whoever cooperates in such a case becomes an accessory to acts of violation or invalidation of the Constitution.”

 

Why—academic freedom week

Next week UC students and organizations will be participating in the activities of Academic Freedom Week. The idea for the Academic Freedom Week stems from a suggestion of the National Executive Committee of the US National Student Association (NSA), that an academic freedom week be sponsored by member schools.

Without further aid from the NSA many students have taken up the call and instituted academic freedom weeks on their campuses. Briefly, the MAROON has tried to document the extent of these activities, showing how students throughout the country are meeting the grave threats to the integrity of American education. These threats — Mc Carthyism, abusive Congressional inquiries, and fear itself — have done much damage to American education.

Teachers are often summarily fired, not for being supposedly “subversive,” but for being just controversial, as Robert M. Hutchins notes in his recent article in Look magazine. Students and faculty members alike are often fearful of expressing their views.

These attacks on free education have consequences that have become almost too well known to fully enumerate here. But what is not as well known is what is being done to meet these attacks.

The Robin Hood movement on Midwest campuses started about a. month ago at the University of Indiana. Now, thousands of students at Indiana, the University of Michigan, the University of Wisconsin, Northwestern University, Roosevelt College, UC, and other schools are wearing the green feather buttons which means their wearers are opposed to Mc Carthyism and book censorship. At Indiana the slogan is: “They are your books, don’t let Mc Carthy burn them!”

The academic freedom week activities show the widespread concern for the principles of academic freedom.

One of such activity, the circulation of a scroll of the Bill of Rights, to be signed by students and faculty members is indicative of this. Your signature on this document will show your concern for the neglect of the Bill of Rights by the Mc Carthy’s, Jenner’s, Velde’s, et al.

Next week’s activities at UC are not an isolated phenomena. They are only a part of the growing nation-wide sentiment to preserve free education and safeguard our basic rights.

gone on around do not recall one charged that the a good teacher.

the country, I in which it was teacher was not I do not recall

Papers speak out

more than one or two in which it was suggested that the teacher attempted to get his pupils to adopt his alleged political views or even that they knew what those views were.

“The view is growing that we must avoid ‘controversial issues’ in the classroom. But issues canresponsibilities “Universities have flagrantly n°t be omitted from education, except through falsity, distortion

abused their responsibility to their scholars by dismissing teachers merely because they have invoked the Fifth Amendment,” Dr. Harold Taylor, president of Sarah Lawrence College, declared.

Taylor, speaking at Columbia University at a meeting of the student committee on academic freedom, recommended that these five principles be accepted by boards of trustees:

1) A scholar has the same rights and duties as any citizen.

2) Scholars should themselves decide on the appointment or dismissal of their colleagues.

3) Teachers should not be treator concealment. ...”

“What can we ask of our teachers? We can demand the fairest possible presentation of a problem—of all sides of a problem. We must demand for our children the freest exploration of ideas. That is not what vocal pressure groups are yammering about. They want only their side presented, and anybody who suggests that there is another side is likely to lose his livelihood and his reputation.”

People cannot speak freely — Einstein

Dr. Albert Einstein, at a

conference at Princeton in March

ed as employees but rather as persons who are active partners £lven in honor of his seventyfifth birthday, presented the folin creating university policy.

4) Scholars should not be dismissed unless -it' is proved that they are either immoral, academically incompetent, or traitorous.

5) The classroom should not be used for purposes of indoctrination. " 0

Freedom disintegrating — Commager

Speaking before 400 students last month at an intercollegiate conference on “The Nature of American Freedom” at Sarah Lawrence College, Henry Steele Commager, professor of American history at Columbia University and noted historian, said that some of the basic characteristics of American freedom were in danger of disintegrating, taking our freedoms with them.

lowing reply to questions on civil .liberties and academic freedom submitted to him by 200 educators:

“The threat to academic freedom in our time must be seen in the fact that, because of the alleged external danger to our country, freedom of teaching, mutual exchange of opinions, and freedom of press and other media of

communication a r upon or obstructed.

 e encroached .This is done

L

Explaining that the genius America has been its ability compromise and “leave room

of to at

by creating a situation in which people feel their economic positions endangered. Consequently, more and more people avoid expressing their opinion freely, even in their private social life. This is a state of affairs which a democratic government cannot survive in the long run.

“The strength of the Constitution lies entirely in the determination of each citizen to defend M.

New Jersey polls students

“If you’re blase about Mc Carthy and what he stands for, don’t read any further,” begins an editorial in The Caellian, (January 14,1954) the newspaper at New Jersey College for Women. Discussing an academic freedom poll taken at the College, it says, “We found it reassuring to hear that most of the students polled were on the right side of the fence. Sixty-two per cent of the school disagrees with the policy of dismissing college professors who refuse to testify, according to the statistics.”

However, the editorial continues, “the results of the survey leave us rather skeptical... it seems to indicate a general lack of awareness. For example: nine per cent believed that no one had been suspended from Rutgers as a result of refusing to submit to investigations.”

Daily Kansan attacks Mc Carthy

In an editorial forming part of a full page spread — “Mc Carthyism: Its Meaning, Its Method, Its Man” — the March 31, 1954, issue of the University Daily Kansan, the University of Kansas student newspaper said, “As to Mc Carthy’s objectives, what he hopes to accomplish, only he knows the real answer. From all indications, and because of the devices he employs, we would go along with the idea that he is out for what he can get for Mc Carthy, as much as for what he can do to fight communism.

“But if they (the American People) think that democracy can survive without its being pushed down their throats, they had better withdraw their support of Mc Carthy and what he stands for.,

“Mc Carthy has come more and more in recent months to be considered a demogogue by his political associates, and is not in too strong a position at the present time. But you can depend on a man of his dynamic personality and motivation to find another flag to wave in the near future.”

Daily Texan supports protest

At the University of Texas, in connection with the student protest of a scheduled Mc Carthy speech (reported on page six), The Daily Texan said, “We have no doubt but that the speech to be made by the Republican from Wisconsin will follow an already set pattern, calling for government investigations and repressions in just about every area of society, implying thought-control tactics and techniques. In this stand he may be representing the viewpoint of the San Jacinto chapter of the Sons of the Republic of Texas, but he is not representing the whole of the state. Other Texans feel so deeply their heritage of freedom, including freedom of thought, for which their ancestors

fought at San Jaquito, that they are again willing to fight when they see that freedom threatened. To them Senator Mc Carthy, with his tactics of blanket accusations, guilt by association, and demonstrated demagoguery, represents a threat to their freedom. In no sense can he represent them, and in no way could their viewpoint have been considered by those who picked him for the San Jacinto Day speech.”

Hunter Arrow questions censorship

At Queen’s College, New York, the Student Council voted to suspend any newspaper on their campus printing an advertisement submitted by any group on the Attorney General’s “subversive organizations list.” Commenting on this action in their March 8 issue, the Hunter College Arrow said, "We feel that the Queens Student Council, in taking this step, has seriously retarded academic freedom on their campus. We also feel that they have become a part of the prevailing hysteria that condemns groups and individuals as guilty before they have been legally proven so.

“By delivering this ultimatum and delivering policy to them the Student Council is severely limiting the school newspaper’s usefulness. To honestly discharge its duties to the student body, the college paper must be free to print all sides of every issue. It is the great American Tradition, substantiated by law, that anyone, regardless of

whether he is right or wrong, be opportunity to express his opinions.”

Cynic criticizes suspensions

The Vermont Cynic (March 25)

versify of Vermont commented on

granted the

at the Unia resolution

before the University Senate to end the University policy of suspending professors who invoke the Fifth Amendment.

The editorial, which treated mainly legal aspects of the resolution, concluded by saying, “Any dismissal of a faculty member should be made not on the basis of'political views; it should be made only on the basis of his teaching ability, i.e.—his ability to present material in a manner which is not inimical to free inquiry.

“Fire him because he is a poor teacher, not because he is a good Communist.”

Stockton scores fear ^®l^*

The Stockton College, California Collegian, in an editorial entitled “Are You Afraid to Think” said, “Students have actually been denied jobs and commissions in the Armed Forces because they joined an organization or attended a meeting.

“Young people go to college to think. If they are being scared out of thinking, an offense is being taken against their freedoms.”

A Page 8

THE CHICAGO MAROON

April 9, 1954

To observe Holy Week at UC

Religious services at Rockefeller Chapel, De Sales House, and other University chapels, discussions by student religious organizations, and a Bach oratorio will mark this year's campus observances of the Christian Holy Week.

Closing the Lenten season, Holy Week commemorates the last seven days in the life of Christ. On Palm Sunday 1,924 years ago Christ entered Jerusalem heralded by throngs of his palm-bearing followers. The period from Palm Sunday to Good

Friday corresponds to the period of Christ's ordeal in Jerusalem, his arrest, trial and subsequent condemnation to crucifixion. Maundy Thursday marks the Last Supper after which Christ, while praying in the Garden 'of Olives, was kissed upon the cheek by Judas; the kiss gave the signal for Roman soldiers to seize Christ and take him to the home of Pontius Pilate, where he was condemned.

The period from noon to 3 p.m. on Good Friday commemorates the period during which Christ hung on the cross before dying, a time during which, according to tradition, the noonday sun turned black. Easter Sunday marks the morning of Christ’s Resurrection, ending the Lenten season and preparing for the forty day period leading to Christ’s Ascension.

On Palm Sunday the University of Chicago Choir, conducted by

"Everyman", a medieval morality play of the fifteenth century, will be presented Monday at 8:30 p.m. in Rockefeller Memorial Chapel. The Bond Chapel Choir will accompany the action. The play is sponsored cents for students. Tickets are available at Chapel office. The director is Arthur Peterson, Jr. Admission is fifty cents for students. Tickets are available a Chapel office.

Evanston World Council of Churches Convention.

The Methodist and Baptist groups will both co operate with the Rockefeller services. On April 11 after their 6 p.m. supper the Methodists will hold a debate with negative and positive answers to the question “Does the Church have any effect upon society?’’

The First Unitarian Church. 57th and Woodlawn will hold 11 a.m. Palm Sunday and Easter services and a special Tenebrae service at 7:30 Thursday. The Tenebrae service, a choral liturgy similar in many respects to Roman Catholic and Lutheran Tenebrae services begins with the announcement by the full choir: “Tenebrae factae sunt’’ (Darkness came upon the earth.) At the first sound of the choir, an acolyte moves to put out one of the altar candles, an omen of the gathering shadows. In the steadily diminishing light of altar and church, the

Robert Vikstrom, will present Bach’s oratorio, The Passion According to St. John, 3 p.m. at Rockefeller. The choir will be accompanied by members of the Chicago Symphony Orchestra and will feature as soloists Dorothy Linden Krieg, soprano; Evelyn Reynolds, contralto; John Toms, tenor; Bernard Izzo, baritone; Andrew Foldi, bass, and Heinrich Fleischer, organist.

The 11 a.m. Palm Sunday Serice at Rockefeller will have as a speaker Reverend Wallace W. Robbins, president of the Meadville Theological School. The Rockefeller 7:30 p.m. services throughout the week will have as sermon topics “God in the Void,” discussed by Reverend Robbins on Tuesday, “God the Enemy,” by Reverend William N. Hawley on Wednesday, and “God the Friend” by Reverend John B. Thompson on Maundy Thursday. At the three hour service beginning at

Thursday commemorates the institution of the Sacrament of the Eucharist and will be observed by an 8 a.m. mass. The Good Friday Mass of the Presanctified and Tre Ore will be held from noon to 3 p.m. The Vigil Service and Mass will begin at 11 p.m. Saturday and last until early Easter morning, the morning of the Resurrection. Easter Sunday, April 18, will be observed by three masses at 8:30, 10, and 11 a.m.

Episcopal Holy Week observances in Bond Chapel will begin at 8:30 a.m. on Palm Sunday with the Distribution of Palms and the mass, Missa Penitentialis, featuring traditional Medieval music. The gospel, the story of the Passion according to St. Matthew, will be presented in a dramatic form with a spoken narration and musical responses by three male cantors. At the beginning of the ceremony palms are blessed and

given to members of the congregation who carry them throughout the ceremony and keep them in their home throughout Holy Week. The Easter mass, which will be given at 8:30 Easter'morning, will be Missa Paschalis. Following both services will be breakfasts in Thorndike Hilton Chapel. Other Lutheran Services will be Lenten Vespers Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday at 5 p.m., a Tenebrae service on Friday at 5 p.m., and a Holy Communion on Easter Sunday at 10 a.m. Choral Vespers for Easter Eve will be presented by the Lutheran Student Parish in Rockefeller Chapel Saturday at 7 p.m. The Holy Saturday Vespers, presented by the Lutherans in Rockefeller only once before, are an extremely elaborate liturgical service dating back to the fifth century. Included in the service is the chanting of ancient

prophecies and the blessing and kindling of the Paschal candle, the light of which represents the resurrection. The large Paschal candle was carved by students from International House.

Funds collected at the Saturday vespers will go to the World University Service organization.

The Disciples of Christ will hold Palm Sunday and Easter Sunday services at the Universal Disciples of Christ Church, 57th and University, with Communion at 10:30 a.m. and a worship service at 11 a.m. With scriptures, music, and litanies orientated around a theme of Holy Week, the sermon topics, “Jesus, Hope of the World,” and “The Christian in His Vocation” are part of a series of sermons with themes suggested by the

Tenebrae forecasts, in its ancient ritual, the impending tragedy of Good Friday.

Prophetic psalms of warning and of consolation, sung by the men’s choir, alternate with motets and chorales for mixed voices by Palestrina, are put out one at a time, leaving burning at the last only the center candle, in token of the final isolation of Jesus on the cross. As the choir sings the chorale, “O sacred head sore wounded,” this light is carried out leaving the church in the darkness of rejection and death. The light is returned, in affirmation of the triumph of the sacrifice. The Bible is closed; the tragedy is accomplished. The benediction is pronounced.

The Biblical responses will be read and the benediction given by the Reverend Leslie T. Pennington. The acolytes of the ceremony will be students of the Meadville Theological Seminary.

noon Friday, Professor Joseph Sittier will speak on “The Seven Last Words.” The Easter morning service will begin at 11 a.m.

The Blessing and Distribution of Palms at the 8:30 a.m. Palm Sunday Mass will begin the week’s Roman Catholic observance at De Sales House, 5735 University Avenue; other Palm Sunday masses will be given at 10 a.m. and 11 a.m. Tenebrae Services, an account in words and music of the world’s rejection of the Light will be held from April 14-16 at 8 p.m. Holy

Portraits by

LOUISE BARKER

Photographer

1457 E. 57th St. BU 8-0876 .

Opening Under

New Management Thursday, April 8 Meals and Snacks OMAR'S GRILL

1145 E. 55th

Open 7 a.m. to 8:30 p.m.

Secretary to a VIP

“My day is packed to the brim with celebrities, phone calls, mountains of mail Thank goodness my Katie Gibbs training Anticipated pressure along with the usual secretarial duties.”

Gibbs training

opens doors for college women to career opportunities in their chosen field. Special Course for College Women. Write College Dean for “Gibbs Gnus at Work.”

KATHARINE GIBBS

SECRETARIAL

BOSTON 16, 90 Marlborough St.'J NEW YORK 17, 230 Parkf Ava.

CHICAGO 11, 51 E. Superior St PROVIDENCE 6. 155 Ante H St

MONTCLAIR, N. J., 33 Plymouth St

Coeds "Rush” College Men in Arrow White Shirts

Smarter Styles, Smoother “Lines” Attract Gals

A guy in an Arrow shirt here.. and everywhere a pretty coed—a typical scene on our college campus and from coast to coast. When asked why they go for men wearing Arrows, the gals agreed that Arrow shirts do more for a man’s appearance.

ARROW

 ~

* TRADE ® MARK

— SHIRTS • TIES ♦ UNDERWEAR ♦ HANDKERCHIEFS SPORTSWEAR —

Show off your style know-how in Arrow White Shirts

Come in ... and pick your Arrow whites in the collar stylos that do the most for your appearance. Wo have a terrific selection for you — button-downs, rounded-points, widespreads ... all your tried-and-true Arrow style favorites, and a few now ones you really ought to try. Every shirt impeccably tailored of fine "Sanforized"® fabric that won't shrink more than 1 %. See us today for your Arrow whites. ...Chicago - Evanston - Oak Park - Gary - Joliet - Aitoi MM_ Freedom Week calendar

Internotionol House Forum, C Group forums.

Llewellyn,

Trumbull Trumbull

ond others in a forum on "Academic Freedom ond the Disciplines." Eckhart 133.

still provisional. Exact time ond place of these ond will be posted on bulletin boards.)

April % 1954

Ne/ collection shows variety

Academic

Sunday thru Friday

Sunday, 6

8

p.m.

8

Tuesday, 4

Evening

Wed., Afternoon

String group

of unify8 p.m.

Bruno Bettleheim, Harold Urey, Karl

'Sholom' cast

here Sunday

recommend it, but the rhythms

which she

and inflections with

carried the melody more than

were three

Dinah Sheridan • Kay Kendall

John Gregson

*5

Merrie Men

Df ARBORN

holdmeeting

tion, and it looks like that's what

City Club’s invitation to good going

Win a Chevrolet Corvette

in the big, easy

Jean Cocteau's

City Club shoe contest!

ORPHEUS

1— NOTHING TO BUY—ENTER NOW. SIMPLE RULES OF THE CONTESTt

tonight 7:15 & 9:30. Soc. Sci. 122

(This calender is additional events

pen ter, o’clock ranged appear

and Ed Grower. The six curtain time has been arto allow the company to between its regular Sunout in two of etching,

made up for this.

In addition there

NAACP presents Mrs. Howord from Pork, speaking on freedom and the Pork incidents.

1.

2.

and superimposition ing lines.

Pablo Picasso stood extremes of his style

in technicolor

Todov at:

I 30. 8 15. 10.00

In 25 words or less tell why “I like City Club Shoes ”

Send in as many entries as you wish, but each must be on a separate piece of paper. Print your name and address clearly.

1st MIZI-'M Chevrolet Corvette Ind Mill-$1,000.00 in tosh P1UI SOO PRIZIS—o polr of CITY CLUE Amigos

WINKER OF FIRST GRAND PRIZE, If taffy it on Official Entry Blank obtained from a City Club dtaltr, will r*cvt additional >250 wall prize for operating coats.

Miss Julia is a very difficult play to perform well. It contains many rapid transitions, all of which carry a great deal of significance. In addition, the characters of Julia and Jean are many-faceted personalities difficult to represent fully. Zohra Alton as Miss Julia and Ed Asner as Jean, were not able to cover the whole ground, as it were, but were highly effective

Wednesday, Evening Thursday, Evening

THE CHICAGO MAROON

Students presenting their ID cards at box office will be admitted for 50c any week night. Saturdays •nd Sundays until 5 p.m.

The delightful story of a gent who went on a wild weekend with his fast-moving first loved named

tion are by Dufy, Picasso, Kandinsky, Grosz, Matisse, Chagall and Rouault. The most remarkable of these were “1^ Cirque” and “Longchamps” watercolors by Raoul Dufy. These in their respective predominance of blue and green suggested most strongly an emotional quality characteristically Dufy’s technique in color

Monday, April 12 — “GOD NEEDS MEN" (French) Thursday, April 15 — "SONG OF BERNADETTE" (American)

3. It is not necessary to use an Official entry blank but handy entry blanks may be procured at your City Club Dealer (they carry an extra advantage—see note above).

4. Mail all entries to Peters Shoe Company, Dept. C4, Box 5995, Chicago 77, Illinois.

S. Contest starts March 15—ends May 15, 1954. All entries postmarked before midnight May 15 and received by May 22 eligible.

6. Entries will be judged on originality, aptness and sincerity by the Reuben H. Donnelley Corp. Judges’ decision final. Duplicate prizes in case of ties. No entries returned. Entries and ideas therein become property of Peters Shoe Company to be used as it sees fit. Winners will be notified by mad.

7. Contest open to all residents of continental United States and Canada. Contest not open to employees of Peters Shoe Co., of City Club Dealers, of their Advertising Agency, nor their families.

SEE your City Club doalor. Or for name of your noaroat dealer, writoi

Peter* Shoo Company, St. Loul* 3, Missouri

International House Movie Program

East Lounge, Monday and Thursday Evenings at 7:00 P.M. and 9:00 P.M.

Admission 35c

tion, as stated in its constitution, t,^„, is "opposition to Mc Carthyism- they had Wednesday night.

NO 7-9071 HYDE PARK THEATRE ^^d PABK STARTING FRIDAY, APRIL 9 LAURENCE OLIVIER Presents "HAMLET" with UPA's "BALLET OOP" Coming Next: "ROME, 11 O'CLOCK"

Student Rote 50c All Performances If You Present Your ID Card at the Boxoffice

relies on contemporary work

The Renaissance Society of the University of Chicago is holding at the Goodspeed Gal1erie$ ^n^,x T^l lon ° contemporary paintings, prints, and drawings in memory of Elinor Castle Nef. It seems as if one of the coffers of of the deceased Mrs. Nef, containing souvenirs of her world-wide travels had been suddenly unpacked revealing a most haphazard collection of a few excellent and mostly mediocre paintings. The collection itself could perhaps only be understood thiough Mrs. Nefs biography, since these paintings were not collected with a certain topic or particularinterest in mind. To one who is not familiar with her life, any criticism must fall on individual paintings rather than the collection as a whole.

To turn to the individual paintings, these deserving menopens series

Today the University Concerts Spring Quarter series opens with a concert by the Walden String Quartet, a group in residence at the University of Illinois, including Homer Schmitt and Bernard Goodman, violins, John Garvey, viola, and Robert Swenson, ’cello. The program is composed of three contemporary quartets, by Alan Rawsthorne, Elliot Carter and William Walton. The concert is in Mandel Hall at 8:30 p.m.

The remainder of the series features the New Art Wind Quintet, a new group formed in 1947 including Melvin Kaplan, oboe, Andrew Lolya, flute, Irving Neidieh, clarinet, Tina Di Dario, bassoon, and Earl Chapin. French horn, in a concert April 23; and a dance recital May 7 by Sybil Shearer. Tickets are $3.30 for the entire series, or $1.50 for individual concerts.

“L'homme a la Guitare” which in its abstractness was the exact opposite of ‘‘The Frugal Repast,” a striking example of Picasso’s power of expression. “Design in Color” by Wassily Kandinsky, a clear and exact abstraction full of movement and exciting color saw its counterpart in Georges Grosz’s pen drawings which in their all too earthly ugliness typify Grosz’s biting and poisonous criticism of social circumstances in his time. Unfortunately, Henri

A special recital performance of Inheritors will be given by the World of Sholom Aleichem Company this Sunday at 6 p.m. in Mandel Hall at the University of Chicago. The Susan Glaspell play will be sponsored by University Theatre in celebration of National Academic Freedom Week. The performance, to be given in “concert” form, will include Anne Revere, Howard Da Silva, Gilbert Green, Marjorie Nelson, Cliff Carday matinee and evening performances at the Eleventh Street Theatre.

There will be no admission for the performance. Contributions, however, will be solicited to cover the costs of Academic Freedom Week activities.

Matisse was not represented by any of his paintings, only by lithographs such as “Nude” or "Odalisque” not entirely representative of his achievements.

Even Marc Chagall and Georges Rouault are not here at their best. Chagall’s “Mother and Child” a gouache, stunning in color value and expression, and Rouault’s “Self Portrait,” an outstanding, sensitive print are worth noting. These works were far outbalanced by the average products of painters like l^ura Van Pappelendam and her paintings of the Nefs, Vanessa Bell and Hermine David.

On the whole the exhibit is a monument for Mrs. Nefs taste as an unpretentious collector.

Zohava Dudnick

Seeger shines in second concert

Singing and playing his banjo to a packed house in Mandel Hall last Saturday night, Pete Seeger was his usual entertaining self, playing his selections with an assurance that would do credit to any performer, folk or otherwise.

The numbers varied from modern parodies dealing with current events (“This is the Army, Pvt. Schine”) to old Elizabethan ballads. In many instances Seeger preceded his songs with some historical background which often gave a deeper meaning to an apparently

simple number. As at his appearance here last February, many songs were selected to exemplify man’s universal fight for freedom. The most notable ones of this type last Saturday were “Die Gedanken Sind Frei” and “Tzena.” Often the audience was invited to participate in the singing, and the response was terrific.

Also featured on the program was Ella Jenkins, who sang and played an Afro-Cuban drum. Although not singing strictly Afro Cuban music, she was quite enjoyable, and her explanations greatly illuminated a field of folk music which is almost unknown in the U. S. Her voice had little to

“Robin Hood’s Merrie Men,” an organization devoted to combatting Mc Carthyism, elected Emil Johnson (Col.) as its president at its first meeting, Wednesday afternoon.

The purpose of the organizaand all other forms of totalitarianism, including communism.”

Johnson expressed the hope that the enthusiasm manifested in the meeting was an indication that the campus would wholeheartedly support this effort. He said that the group would try to get Leroy Gore, Wisconsin Republican and originator of the “Joe Must Go” club, to appear on campus for the Robin Hood group.

songs sung by a quartet of members of the UC Folklore Society. It would be unfair to judge this group on the basis of their first public appearance; they were obviously unused to singing before a large audience, and were very

Strindberg succeeds

Last Wednesday evening saw the opening of Playwrights Theatre’s double bill “Miss Julia” by Strindberg, and the “Marriage Proposal” by Chekov. The plays were received by an audience not only appreciative but cooperative. When a Western Union messenger appeared at the top of the stairs and next to the stage during a highly dramatic portion of “Miss

Julia,” and attempted to hand a telegram to Ed Asner as he was playing the part of Jean, the audience silently but energetically waved him away. The confused messenger then silently retired, apparently leaving the actors unaware of the intrusion. Playwright’s have long striven for a theatre of audience participa Page 9

Signing of Bill of Rights scroll.

Reynolds club bulletin board exhibit.

Cost of "World of Sholom Aleichem" presents "The Inheritors." Mandel Holl. Donations accepted.

Gates-Blake Forum. Topes of Jenner Committee Hearings will be played.

"Religious Interpretation of Intellectual Freedom"; a panel discussion with speakers from Channing Club, Young Friends, and Lutheran Association. Quaker House, 5615 Woodlawn.

"Political Approaches to Academic Freedom." Speakers from Young Democrats, Young Republicans, Students for Democratic Action, Young Socialist League and the Lobar Youth League. Rosenwald 2.

"The Male Animol" will be shown by Doc Film, Social Sciences 122, 7:15 and 9:30 p.m.

Robin Hood's Merrie Men presents Leroy Gore, Editor of "Sauk City Prarie Star" — originator of Wisconsin's "Joe must go" movement. Mandel Hall.

nervous and self-conscious, and at times out of tune. They have, however, sounded much better in small gatherings, and they showed, in spite of their shortcomings, excellent promise for future appearances.

The concert was on the whole, a creditable performance for all participating, and an enjoyable evening for all attending.

Mickey Stem

hi bringing to life those aspects of the personalities on which they concentrated.

Miss Alton’s Julia lacked the pride and arrogance which is such a real part of the character, but portrayed the mentally broken Miss Julia with striking authenticity. In the same way Mr. Asner sacrificed the more honest side of Jean to portray the selfish, conniving, and ambitious aspects of that character. Joyce Hiller brought conviction and understanding to the role of Christine, the cook. The director of the play, Elaine May, seems to have employed a method more or less new to Playwrights; that of coming to task with each and every specific problem of meaning and interpretation presented by the play. One might disagree with her interpretation, but no one could help but praise and admire the resulting high quality of sincerity and completeness which both the play and players presented. All in all, Miss Julia is the most professional production Playwright’s has yet presented, with the possible exception of its own curtain raiser, The Marriage Proposal.

Despite all the opening night hazards, including tottering scenery, The Marriage Proposal was delightful. Eugene Troobnick, who is excellent in this type of comedy role, could not have hoped for a more talented partner than Elaine May. Paul Sills completed the triumvirate. With a flurry of shouts, Russian accents, twitches, and wild gestures (and none of them going too far) Playwright’s presented what, in this reviewer’s opinion, is the most enjoyable production of its career.

Arlene Petersen April 9, 1954

^"

Page 10

THE CHICAGO MAROON

Trackmen trounce Teachers; End year defeated only once

by Justin Johnson The Varsity Track Team wound up their indoor season last Saturday with a decisive victory over Wisconsin State Teachers College (Milwaukee) at the UC Fieldhouse. Five meet records were smashed and another tied as Chicago piled up points resulting in a 67%-28}4

final score.

Hal Higdon started things rolling with a 4:27.7 mile, breaking the old mark, with Captain Walt Deike coming up fast at the finish for second place. In the 60-yard dash, Frank Loomis

and Dave Shepherd had to be content with second and third, but came right back in the 880-relay with Phil Wyatt and Justin Johnson to set a new record in this event. The winning time was 1:33.1.

Maroons sweep hurdles

In the high hurdles, Johnson ran :09.1, knocking two-tenths of a second off the record set in 1952 by a former Chicago runner. Vern Gras. Dan Trifone and Sherry Gray completed the three-man sweep in this event.

Taking their cue from the hurdlers, the two-mile trio of Jim Flynn, Paul Baptist, and Ray Sanders slammed their event, with Flynn leading his teammates around the track in 10:22.4. The two-mile relay team of Art Omohondro, Arnie Meardon. Higdon and Ken Stapley had little trouble winning their event in 8:13.1. Loomos finished his indoor low

hurdling for this season with a record-setting :08.4 performance.

Howard wins shot put

In the field events, Maroonmen were also piling up points for Chicago. Joe Howard, throwing 42' 11%", won the shot put. with Roger Forsythe settling for second place. The high jump ended in a four-way tie for first but Chicago had Bob Mason, Trifone, and Johnson in there to insure a 3-1 split of honors. Shepherd and Johnson had to be satisfied with second and third in th£ broad jump. In the final event the Chicago mile-relay team finished

CANOE TRIPS

Quetico-Superior Wilderness. Only $5.00 per man day for complete outfit, aluminum canoe and food. For free folder and may write: Bill Rom, CANOE COUNTRY OUTFITTERS, Bok 717 C, Ely, Minnesota.

Don't Miss Hearing* VASHTI Me COLLUM

Author of "One Woman's Fight” Victor in historic Supreme Court "Mc Collum Case", who will speak on

••The Effect on Democracy When Sectarianism Invades Education"

Sunday, April 11th 3:30 P.M. — Admission Free —

Religious Friendship Hour

306 S. Wabash Room 1310

RESTRING WITH

STANDS UP in your racket • Moisture Immune • Lasting Liveliness

STANDS OUT in play

• Harder Smashes • Better Cut and Spin

ASHAWAY BRAIDED RACKET STRING 1 Choice of The Champions

COSTS LESS than gut

APPROX. STRINGING COSTs Pro-Fected Braid ....$6.00 Multi-Ply Braid.$5.00

At tennis shops and sporting goods stores.

I.

first but was disqualified, the victory going to Wisconsin State.

With this victory over Wisconsin State, the Varsity speed merchants can look back over a very successful season in which they rolled over such teams as Bradley, Loyola, Northwestern, Western Michigan, Wayne; and Wheaton, suffering their only defeat at the hands of Marquette University. In addition to their many dual meet triumphs, the track squad returned two team trophies to the Bartlett trophy room, won in the North Central Invitational Meet and the Indoor Amateur Athletic Union (AAU) Meet, and brought back medals and awards.

With this very fine record indoors, Coach Ted Haydon is looking forward to the outdoor season with enthusiasm, having scheduled meets against schools and organizations which will continue

HOMWIWk M^^

IWOil Wil WIIIWa!^

Americas

Knights of the Sky.

The Spartan Band that held the pass. The Knights of Arthur's train The Light Brigade that charged the guns. Across the battle plain Can claim no greater glory than The dedicated few Who wear the Wings of Silver ... on a field of Air Force Blue.

For Fellowship... High Ad venture... and a Proud Mission...

wear the wings of the U. S. Air Force!

In days gone by, young men in shining armor ruled the age. Today, a new kind of man rules the age—America’s Knights of the Sky, the Air Force Pilots! They rule from on high, in flashing silver-winged Air Force jets ... a gallant band that all America looks up to! Like the Knights of old, they are few in number, but they represent their Nation’s greatest strength.

If you are single, between the ages of 19 and 26(4, you can join this select flying team and serve with the finest. You will be given the best jet training in the world, and

graduate as an Air Force Lieutenant earning $5,000 a year. Your silver wings will mark you as one of the chosen few who ride the skies in Air Force jets.

As an Air Force pilot, your kingdom is space—a jet is your charger and your mission is the highest. You are a key defender of the American faith, with a guaranteed future both in military and commercial aviation.

Join America’s Knights of the Sky, new men ofa new age. Be an Aviation Cadet! For further information, fill out this coupon.

UNITED STATES AIR FORCE

’ CN?

| AVIATION CADET, AFPTR-P-4

| Hoadquartorf, U.S.A.F., Washington 25, D.C.

| Please send me information on my

। opportunities as an Air Force pilot.

| re

I Address L *

I

I ^?J ♦• • ••••••••• •• ^R to test the ability of his runners. Tomorrow on Stagg Field, the cindermen will demonstrate their “run for fun’’ attitude against a contingent from the United States Air Force Base at Chanute Field. First events begin at 2 p.m.

"3rd party"

(from page 2) elections. ISL officials said Johnson had not notified them that he is leaving the party.

Tentative plans for a third party on campus were announced last night by a group of students mainly composed of ex-members of SRP. The group issued a call to an organizational meeting to be held today at 7:30 p.m. in Ida Noyes Hall, inviting all students interested to attend. Acting officers were Ralph Fertig, Michael Kaufman, and Debora Meier.

"Hiltner"

(from page 2)

driving forces. These forces undercut clear awareness and therefore have to do with needs, values,

and relationships.

2. The supreme value is truth; the great evil is deflection from truth (idolatry). Truth must be approached directly, as well as indirectly; and evil must be fought directly, as well as indirectly.

3. Human freedom comes only through the growing awareness of determinism. The degree of such awareness is what finally decides whether biology and culture shall be in harmony or in opposition.

4. Human understanding is incomplete without sequential developmental understanding. The principal enemy of such understanding is the hanging on to old forms now irrelevant.

5. Neither conscious impulse, nor reason, can alone give sufficient clues to what is the good for man. If brought together into the right relationship, however, such clues may appear.

Hiltner stated that these points alone are not adequate for a full or complete theology; he concluded, however, that he could not accept a theology that did not include them.

"India"

(from page 2) achieve peace through the UN. Reds refuse compromise

Wright emphasized that the “compromise” policy which India suggests necessitates a precondition of willingness to compromise. Yet he said, Communists have been unwilling to compromise, as we saw in Korea and Tibet. The Indian outlook is unreal and unaware; furthermore, she may ultimately lose herself by a “mistake^ just as Tibet was lost through a mistake."

Need 'positive settlements'

To his claim that aggression understands only force Wright added the argument that the UN offers the same mediating apparatus which India proposes, with an additional feature of collective security. “A lukewarm attitude of India toward aggressor nations only demoralized other UN nations."

India’s “negative position" was assailed by Keno, who claimed that no discussion for the purpose of preventing war is satisfactory; what we need, he said, are “positive settlements." “It is only," he said, “when power hungry Communists see by collective action of the free nations of the world that they cannot overrun the world; it is only then that we will achieve a lasting peace.” April 9, 1954

THE CHICAGO MAROON

Page II,

Darkness halts opening game

Booing the umpire is a time-honored baseball pastime followed by some of the Maroon bench warmers (left) os the umpire called a North Central runner safe at the plate (right). Catcher Wait Walker received the throw too late from first base SPORTS BRIEFS Sailors pamper crafty

Maroon nine, North Central battle 6 innings, tie 6 each by Lennie Friedman

Maroon efforts for an opening day baseball victory at Stagg Field were stymied by a late inning North Central rally which resulted in a 6-6 tie. The ball game, called because of darkness after six innings featured the brilliant two-hit pitching of Charles Youngquist and the able ballplaying of Wendell Marumoto and Walt Walker.

The first scheduled game of the year, last Saturday against Wright Junior College, was cancelled because of snow and cold.

Monday afternoon against North Central, Coach Kyle Anderson started a veteran lineup, plus the rookie battery of Youngquist and Walker who more than justified Anderson’s trust in them.. Youngquist’s pitching performance was .highlighted by striking-out five North Central batters and allowing only two runs in five innings. Walker ably caught Youngquist and kept early season, wildness down to a minimum.

Maroon* take early lead

The Maroons tallied early against a succession of three North Central pitchers to take a 6-2 lead by the fourth inning. The first Maroon run was scored by Marumoto who walked, stole second, and advanced to third on an infield out. Dave Utley was hit by a pitched ball and Bob Mann singled to score Marumoto.

Shortstop Marumoto sparked the second run by leading off in the third inning with a base hit and a stolen base. George Gray’s base hit scored Marumoto for the second tally. Utley reached first base via a North Central error and pushed Grey into scoring position. A clutch hit by Gil Levine scored him.

Score three in fourth

In the fourth inning the last three runs were scored. Walker led off with a base hit to left, Youngquist followed with a walk and after Grey reached first on an error, Utley powered a long

ALEXANDER'S THE GREAT

PLACE TO EAT OFF CAMPUS OPEN DAY AND NIGHT

YOUR HOSTS WILL BE GEORGE KYROS

PETE HRISTAKOS

1137 - 39 East 63rd Street

HARRY A. ZISOOK & SONS

University District Renting Office

MAYFLOWER HOTEL 6125 KENWOOD AVENUE

Let us help you

GET OUT OF THE ROOMING HOUSES AND SUBSTANDARD BUILDINGS IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD For the convenience and accommodation of the Students, Faculty and Employees of the University we have opened a University District Renting Office to serve you in obtaining better housing.

Come In and let us know what your requirements are so that we may assist you.

AVAILABLE NOW AND/OR MAY l*t

Hotel rooms with private bath and shower

Sgl.—$8 per wk.; dbl.—$12 per wk.

Hotel apts. with switchboard and maid service 3^ rm. unfurnished apt. at $80

1 rm. furnished apt. at $73 •

3 tm. furnished apt. at $100

office hours ... 9 a.m. to 5 p.m Monday thru Friday THERE IS NO CHARGE FOR THIS SERVICE main office

HARRY A. ZISOOK & SONS

Real Estate

17111.71# PL 2-5960

Serving Chicago since 1907

double between right and center fields which brought in all base runners.

North Central found it difficult to score against starter Youngquist and collected only two runs before the sixth inning. When Youngquist showed fatigue, John Broyles was brought in to hold the four run Chicago lead. But Broyles wrenched his back and when he had to rely on his slow stuff, was clobbered for four quick runs. A throw by second sacker Mann and a fancy tag by Walker resulted in the third out, saving Broyles from further punishment.

Marumoto stars on basepaths

Marumoto demonstrated some fine baserunning during the game. The 128 pound shortstop on a dash from third to home found a 180 pound pitcher blocking his path. An instant later the pitcher was fouhd sprawling on the ground. After the pitcher was taken out, Marumoto was last seen behind the strongest Maroons timidly peeking out to see if any North Central players were after him.

Utley’s double was the strongest Maroon blow of the day. Mann showed the same form that has kept him a starter on former Maroon teams. Youngquist’s blazing fast ball and slick curve made him a starting pitcher in Anderson’s book.

North Central 0 10 0 14

Maroon* 1 0 2 3 0 0

^Disc

1367 E. 57th St.

THE RECORD OF THE WEEK

Lili Kraus

Mozart Piano Concertos

No. 12 in A

No. 18 in B-Flat

LM 1783 . . a $5.72

prepare first regatta

The advent of spring weather has brought about a great increase of activity among UC sailors. The Sailing Club’s boat is receiving its final coat of paint, and is expected to be in use within a few days. Old members of the Sailing Club are brushing up on their racing tactics, while neophytes are being primed on the duties of a crewman.

This quarter the UC team, a regular member of the Midwest Collegiate Sailing Association (MCSA) will compete in five official regattas, opposing a total of 26 schools, including Notre Dame, Marquette, and several Big Ten colleges. Their first competition is in the MCSA Invitational which will be held on the University of Michigan campus in Ann Arbor on April 17 and 18.

Chess-men checkmate Navy Pier

While it may require less energy than hitting a home-run or steering a sailing craft through the waves, chess is a game that requires concentration. And the UC Chess Club must certainly have been concentrating last Friday night. They defeated a team from the University of Illinois, Navy Pier branch, in the Burton Library, four games to none, one match being a draw.

Jim Phillips, Burton Weinstein, Larry Abrahams and Bob Floyd each won their matches. Bob Shapiro and his Illini opponent faced each other for several hours but neither man could gain an advantage. When the night-watchman came to lock the doors, they decided to call the match a draw.

Watkins stars for JV trackmen

There was some doubt whether Morton and Mendel High School's were competing against the JV track team or against Mitch Watkins last Thursday, but the final tallies gave the junior Maroons 66-1/3, Morton 53-1/3, and Mendel 5. In the high-jump Watkins made 5'11", in the broad-jump 20'4", both first places. He won the low hurdles in :08.9, placed second in the highs, and was a member of the winning relay team.

In the Oak Park Relays March 27, Watkins again starred as his team fared poorly. He took fourth places in both the broad and high jumps. The sprint medley team placed fifth.

Spring inframurals to start soon

Team entries for intramural softball will close Friday, April 16, according to intramural director Kooman Boycheff. Play in college, divisional, and fraternity house leagues will begin soon after, and so all students interested in forming and entering teams should pick up applications this week from the IM office, Bartlett 105.

All-University tournaments in golf, horseshoes, and tennis are also scheduled this spring, and information and applications for these are available in Bartlett 105. Medals will be awarded to winners in all three tourneys. Students, faculty members, and employees excepting those competing on official Chicago teams are eligible to enter.

Gymnasts tumbled in top meet

Three of Coach Bub Beyer’s star gymnasts took on some of the best competition in the country in the National Collegiate championships last weekend. The matches, which were held at Huff Gymnasium on the University of Illinois campus in Champaign, saw Bob Herndon and Ron Graham competing in the trampoline. Herndon was eliminated in the preliminaries, while Graham lost in the medalist category. Herb Taylor, competing in the all-around event fared better, but did not qualify for the finals.

Sports events this week

Today—The JV track team faces Leo and St George high schools at 3:30 in Stagg Field Tomorrow—The varsity trackmen will meet the airmen from Chanute Field in their first outdoor running of the season, 1 p.m. at Stagg Field Monday—the Maroon nine will face St. Joseph in a double-header in Stagg Field at 1 p.m Thursday — the junior trackmen will face Tilden Tech in Stagg Field at 3:30. ^ Mtm

PHOTOGRAPHERS

MIDWAY 3-4433

1171 EAST 55th STREET Page 12

THE CHICAGO MAROON

April 9, 1954

Classified w4^ Mtft^u ev&tfy at ^u^

Lost and Found

Reward! If you found a man’s wristwatch in Abbott 133 last Tuesday, call DO 3-8017. Reward! 

Man’s gold Bulova watch found near Billings. Can be claimed at information desk, Adm. Bldg.

For Sale

ping pong table, 4x8, $12; billiard table, $15; and forty theater chairs. PL 2-9250.

Hi-Fi components cabinet, man’s bike for tall man, typewriter, shelves, furniture. Very low prices. Parsch. 1155 E. 56th St. MI 3-2189.

1918 Austin, 2-door, best offer; Speed Queen washing machine, $15. Call MU 4-4299.

Bed, $15; wardrobe, $12; bureau, $10; zither, $5. O’Neill, 1130 E. 62nd St., evenings. Saturdays.

FM tuner, Meissner 8C. Will sell at half current price. G. Mlnkus, Beecher Hall.

Friday, April 9

The French language table will meet at *6 p.m. in International House dining room.

Hilde Marx, monologist, will give several monologues, including the Book of Esther, Hillel Foundation, 5715 Woodlawn. Admission will be free. Sabbath services will begin at 7:45 p.m.

Saturday, April 10

Pleasure sailing and instruction will be made available (weather permitting) by the UC Sailing Club at the Columbia Yacht Club from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.

Acrotheater will sponsor a presentation

. Miscellaneous

Can take passengers to New York area about April 14. HY 3-2644 or PL 2-5688.

Free puppies—wanted: good homes for cute, healthy puppies. Irwin Pless, MU 4-1763 after 5:30 p.m.

OMP student organizing tutorial seminar, Cobb 103, Monday, April 12, 4 p.m.

of the Bockman Ballet presenting four ballets in Mandel Hall at 8:30 p.m.

Sunday, April 11

Acrotheater will sponsor a presentation of the Bockman Ballet presenting four ballets in Mandel Hall, 3 p.m. Admission will be $1.75, $1.50, and#$1.25; all seats are reserved.

The University Religious Service will be conducted by the Reverend Wallace W. Robbins, president of Meadville Theological School, in Rockefeller Memorial Chapel at 11 a.m.

A carillon recital by James R. Lawson, carillonneur, will be presented in Rockefeller Memorial Chapel at 2:30 p.m.

Bach’s “The Passion of Our Lord According to St. John,” will be presented by the University Choir and members of the Chicago Symphony Orchestra, Richard Vikstrom, conducting, at 3 p.m., in Rockefeller Memorial Chapel. General admission will be $2; student tickets at $1 will be available through Friday, April 9.

The Channing Club’s meeting will begin with supper at 6 p.m. and will be followed by a panel discussion on “Religious Interpretations of Intellectual

Freedom.” The supper will take place at Fenn House, and the discussion will take place at Quaker house, 5615 Woodlawn, at 8 p.m.

Channing Club and Young Friends will present speakers Boyd Gibson, of the United Lutheran Church of America, Marchall Hedgsen of the Society of Friends, and Bill Horton of the United Unitarian Church with David Parke as moderator at 8 p.m. in the Quaker House at 5615 Woodlawn Ave.

The Intercollegiate Zionist Federeration of America will present some movies on Israel—“Jerusalem My City” and “Tent City” at Hillel House at 7:30 p.m.

Monday, April 12

German language table will meet at 6 p.m. in International House dining room.

The Hillel Foundation presents a discussion in Hebrew by Peretz Gordon, student in the Social Sciences, of a novel about the Yemenite Jews, “Ke Esev Hasade” by Modecai Tablb. Hillel Foundation at 12:30 p.m.

The Chapel Committee on Religion and the Arts presents “Everyman,” ths morality play, in Rockefeller Memorial Chapel at 8:15 p.m. General admission will be $1, student tickets a Ye 50 cents.

Tuesday, April 13

The Inter-Varsity Christian Fellowship

in Ida Noyes Hall (third floor) from 12:30 to 1:20 p.m. will present Mr William Norton, professor at Trinity Seminary, who will continue his talks on the Old Testament. Admission la free and open to all students.

Politics Club and Students for Democratic Action will present an Academic Freedom Week Symposium at 4 p m in Rosenwald 2. Presenting the discussion will be Eli Stein, SDA; Markus Raskin, Young Democrats; Bogdan Denitch, Young Socialist League, and Earl Durham, Labor Youth League and an unannounced speaker for the Young Republicans. Admlsison is free

Holy Week Worship In Rockefeller Memorial Chapel will be conducted by the Reverend Wallace W. Robbins Sresident of Meadville Theological chool. “God the Void” is the subject of the sermon. 7:30 p.m.

Communication Club will meet at Social Sciences 201, 8 p.m. Richard L. Meier will lead a discussion on “Social Change and the New Communication Theory.”

Wednesday, April 14

A Tape of the Jenner Hearings will be played during Green House’s usual coffee hour, at Green Hall, from 45:30.

A carillon recital will take place in Rockefeller Memorial Chapel, at 4 30 p.m. Donald Kitchen will be guest carllloneur.

Meissner tuner, Grommes amplifier, Webcor changer, two cartridge; custom lined oak cabinet, $98. ES 5-0371, evenings.

LPS. 20 to 40 per cent off list price Bach. Beethoven, etc. Call evening BU 8-8928.

Wanted

Used Spinet piano, in good condition Phone MU 4-8651 evenings or Ext. 3591 weekday^ Elaine Hrones.

Single focus field glasses, eight powei magnification, must be cheap. BU 8 7876.

Furnished two. three bedrooms, neai University of Chicago, June, 1954-June 1955. MU 4-1407.

Services

Experienced tutor German, French; specialize in divisional requirements and Comps. Call evenings, BU 8-8928.

Mathematics. Special instruction to fit your mathematic needs, individual or group sessions. Albert Soglin, ST 2-6727.

Help Wanted

Secretary foreign students adviser’s office, International House. Mature type. Take shorthand. Call Skardon, FA 4•200.

For Rent

Room, adjoining bath, clean, quiet, cook, home privileges. $8 a week. Two blocks from U of C. Girl. Phone eves., •-9, except Thurs., DO 3-7159.

Room in 6-room apartment. One occubant of room recently said, “I looked for such a room all during my student Rays.” Available last week of April. Suitable for foreign student or univer•ity employee. 6032 Ingleside Ave., DO 2-8098.

Large, light, furnished room, in home bear UC. Girl. Do 3-5145 after 6.

Rooms available, kitchen privileges. Piano, TV, washing machine, ping-pong. Alpha Kappa Kappa Fraternity Fraternity. PL 2-9250.

Furnished apartment or two furnished bedrooms near campus. Phone HY 31864.

SIMON'S SHOES

1458 E. 55th St. BU 8-9454

Florsheim - Red Cross

. First in Hyde Park

Dirty Buck Oxfords

at only $1 Q95

We Honor NSA Student Discount Cards

Open Iff on. ond Thurs. Evening#

L&M FILTERS ARE JUST

WHAT THE DOCTOR ORDERED

9^'

which includes

quality tobaccos, a blend special aromatic types.

*U. S. Patent Pending •

Li M’s. They have a brand of filters I have

2. Selective Filtration—the L&M non-mineral filter selects and removes the heavy particles, leaving you a light and mild smoke.

far better flavor than any other ever smoked. Read the facts below

4. Much More Flavor and Aroma. At last a filter tip cigarette with plenty of good taste. Reason —L&M Filters’ premium

America9: Highest Quality and Best Filter Tip Cigarette • ..

1. Effective Filtration, from the Miracle Product—>Alpha Cellulose. Exclusive to L&M Filters, and entirely pure and & harmless to health.

a/i^Wli^

MUCH MORE FLAVOR

l MUCH LESS k NICOTINE J

3. Much Less Nicotine —the L&M Filter* removes one-third of the smoke, leaves you all the satisfaction.

FILTER TIP

