

200 ABC is no longer a divisional still be offered, but it will be up to the

Fate of soc 2

The social science division has

will department

whether or not it will be required of students in that depart. O.r^

‘

ment.

The course is a basic introduction to the social sciences. The

2v

SRP wins in NSA vote, takes 13 seats; ISL 7

The Student Representative Party won an over-all victory in the National Student Association elections held last Thursday and Friday. SRP captured 13 of the 20 contested offices. In the contest for national delegates, the Independent Students

League won three of the top five positions.

Clive Gray (592), Bruce Larkin (527), and Jan Metros (453) were elected from ISL as national delegates. SRP

Teen's gang attacks B-J,

hits window

Campus and city police have been alerted to watch for a hot rod gang following a small flurry of window-breaking at Burton-Judson.

Tony Eidson, chief of the campus police, said that the gang was sjotted tossing rocks at the windows of Vincent House on the 60th st. side of B-J.

The gang was riding in a 1941 Plymouth with yellow doors and a red top, Eidson said. Earlier, a window in the B-J snack bar was broken, but Eidson said this may have been an accident

victors are Dick Ward (556)

and Larry Lichtenstein (494).

One of the five proposals on. the Student Government referendum ballot was adopted. In Article II, Section 2, “November 15” will be substituted for “December 1” and “November 30” for “November 14,” extending the terms of the out going justices for two weeks. SRP takes alternates

In the national alternate category, winning candidates are Fred Solomon (SRP) (543); Barbara Vogelfanger (ISL) (523); Fred Wilkerson (SRP) (514); Al Fortier (ISL) (494); and Lyn Burns (SRP) (489*.

Eight of the ten regional alternate posts were wor. by SRP. The SRP winners in this division are Carolyn Eggert (541); Jim Rosenblum (533*; Sol Hirsh (472); Suzanne Friedman (459); Shirley Long (458); David Hartley (452); Bob Floyd (443*; and James Vice (431). Successful ISL candidates are Stan Fox (495) and Peter Circene (455>.

Tabulating ballots last Friday night in the Reynolds Club lounge after the NSA election are Warren Spachner, Fred Winsburg, Andrew Moor, Paul Glatzer (seated left to right). Looking on are Roger Woodworth, Clive Gray, Frank Kirk.

first quarter deals with statistics, the second quarter with methodology of the social sciences, and the third with history and interrelations of the social sciences.

The international relations department will now accept any three divisional courses in the social sciences with letter grades instead of soc. 200. The industrial relations department will not consider eliminating this type of course. They may, however, accept a similar course instead. The political science department has not made any definite plans as yet, but a course similar to soc. 200 will be required. The sociology department will also be offering a selection of cources instead of soc. 200.

In the department of psychok ogy there is a grade requirement for soc. 200 A, plus either a comprehensive examination in soc. 200 B and C, a grade in soc. 200 B and C, or two other social science courses other than psychology. Of the other departments contacted, the department of economics and the committee on communications have not yet taken action.

Hyde Park and Woodlawn po- The percentage of students who voted in this years election was hee are also on the lookout for 24 2 One thousand and seventythe window smashers.

SG seeking students

to reside in co-op

n bill to provide for Student Government negotiation with the Mayflower Hotel, for use as a student housing co-operative was unanimously adopted at the SG meeting last Tuesday.

Clive Gray, SG president, said yesterday that he believed that it was now up to the student body to accept the present plans. The Student Assembly under the bill enacted will draw

See "NSA," page 6

Describe hotel picked by SG for living co-op

The Mayflower Hotel, proposed site of a co-op to be set up by Student Government if student interest is great enough, is located at 6125 Kenwood Avenue.

The present negotiations between SG and the hotel’s management have been for the leasing of the second floor of the hotel. The Mayflower is about a 10-minute walk from Harper library.

This floor of the hotel contains of the 265 rooms in the hotel. Each room has its own bath and shower facilities. The rooms, which are at present both single and double would, with the exception of two rooms to be converted into common rooms, be occupied by two people. The total occupan* cy of this floor would be 140 people.

Two students in one room in the co-op would pay $50 per month for their room as compared to $52 a month paid by students living in the hotel now, and $69 paid by pon-student residents per room in the hotel.

At present the hotel is running at 75 per cent of capacity, accordto Jack Pasch, manager of the ***ote L

up a contract for the second floor of the Mayflower Hotel if enough student interest is shown in the project. •

Next Monday and Tuesday, SG will solicit the names of persons who would want to live in the co-op, at tables at several places on campus.

Strozier aids attempts

Dean of Students, Robert M. Strozier, told Gray last Wednesday that the University administration will attempt to secure the best possible terms for the rental of space for the co-operative.

At the SG meeting on Tuesday, several members criticized the financial arrangements as they presently stand. These provide for the rental of the seventy rooms and other facilities to be used in the Hotel, for $3500. If the cost is divided among all co-op members, this would be $25 per occupant.

- It was pointed out at the SG meeting that the $25 figure would not take into account the possibility of vacancies existing.

Problem net solved

One problem which has not been solved as yet, according to Gray, is that of securing eating facilities for the students.

At present, the eating facilities are run on a concession basis by a commercial firm, the Mayflower manager said. It would be possible to have meals available to students at lower than the regular prices, the manager said.

Shown above is the Mayflower Hotel, at 6125 Kenwood Avenue, where the proposed Student Government housing cooperative would be located. Under arrangements being negotiated by SG, students would occupy the entire second floor of the four story building, while the rest of the rooms would be rented commercially.

Beta's Stark, campuscandidate, gives whingding

Stark, candidate for president of Student Government, for editor of the MAROON, for director of student activities and for other, lesser posts, is throwing a free open house tonight at the Beta Theta Pi house, 5737 University.

Stephen Mc Grade, Beta prexy, conceded that free beer will be served in the celler. Pressed for further revelations, Mc Grade admitted there will be a four-man jazz combo headed-up by one Dick Gerwin.

“There may be pretzels, too,” said Mc Grade. •

Slated to begin at 8:30 p.m., the. party has no definite terminal point. Mc Grade said the open house will go on as long as there are guests still standing, even if it’s as late as 1 a.m.

Reached for comment after a torturous search, Stark refused to admit that the whole stunt is a barefaced attempt to buy the votes of the entire student body.

Student advisory board plans contact of prospective student

A plan to increase enrollment in the college, proposed by Ann Holcombe, a college student, was adopted by the Student Advisory Board on Wednesday.

The plan recommended that Board membership should be expanded to approximately 100 members, one UC student for every 15 prospective students.

Groups of from 10 to 15 students would be formed according to the location of their homes, each group canvassing a different geographical location.

After the Wednesday meeting members from various areas met to discuss problems of student promotion peculiar to their localities.

A list of prospective students will be released by the administration to SAB next week, after which members of the Board will contact the prospects personally. Tell purpose

“The personal contacts will give interested students the straightfrom-the-shoulder student perspective of the college which cannot be found in the college announcements,” stated Terry Lunsford of the admissions office.

Justin Johnson, who opened the Wednesday meeting, commented, “Each student who contacts highschool students will have three jobs: telling them about the college and answering questions about it; correcting any wrong ideas about the University which the student might have; and, in general, making the admitee feel that there is someone willing to help him, and that UC is a friendly place.”

Begun in 1952

The Board, according to Lunsford, is a “group of students who like it here and would like to encourage others to come here.” It

was begun in 1952 when a small group of UC students contacted, during Christmas vacation, members of their communities who had expressed an interest in attending the college. The success of last year’s personal contacts led to the official recognition of the Board last fall.

Since its establishment, members have carried out a program of student promotion by contacting prospective UC students in their home towns, by giving tours of the campus to high school students, and by contacting high school officials and interested alumni. Page 2 THE CHICAGO MAROON April 30, 1994

Birenbaumto check eligibility SG elects Kirk to SFA Court;

after student has been elected

The student activities office is going back to its former policy of certifying students who are representing the University at off-campus meetings, William Birenbaum, director of student activities, announced.

In a letter to Clive Gray, president of Student Government, Birenbaum explained that his office “will continue to require

that students who represent the student body beyond the -campus through the extra-curriulum must maintain good standing,” in other words, at least a straight C average.

For several years the activities office has been checking the grades of candidates before elections. Because of a disagreement between the office and the Government’s elections and rules committee regarding a candidate in last week’s National Student Association election, however, Birenbaum said he had decided to call

tions, immediately before the students leave the campus to represent the University at conferences or other events.

According to Birenbaum this changes the grades used for determination of averages. Formerly, quarterly grades were used as an index of the candidates’ academic progress during the same year as the election. Winners in the present NSA election, under the new policy, face a determination of averages, and hence of eligibility, after comp time this year.

Government leaders said that if

deals with racial segregation

by Arnie Matonky

Frank A. Kirk, delegate from the social sciences division to the Student Assembly and a leader in the Student Representative Party, was elected to the tion Court Tuesday night by the Student Government.

Kirk said he will resign from the Assembly when he takes his place on the bench. With his resignation, there will be two vacancies in the humanities division and one each in federated theological schools, the college and the social sciences.

Marlin Smith (ISL-Law), chairman of the elections and rules committee, said that students interested in qualifying for these vacancies can obtain the necessary information in the Student Government office on the third floor of the Reynolds Club.

The Assembly also took three actions dealing with racial segregation. The delegates: voted to investigate Billings and Lying-In hospitals and the medical school to determine

of students was defeated approved the sending of a letter to the student representative councils of Capetown University and the University of the Witwatersrand in South Africa.

In its letter the Assembly expressed support for the efforts of South African students to prevent segregation in their universities. Howard M. Turner (ISL-col) went on record as agreeing with the letter but opposing its sending.

“I was elected on a platform

that Student Government should consider only issues that directly concerned students as students," Turner said. “I feel that this issue has no bearing whatsoever upon students on this campus,” he explained.

The delegates also: passed a resolution by Paul E. Breslow (SRP-soc sci), minority leader, instructing the academic freedom committee to investigate ways of fighting segregation in other schools.

a halt to the practice.

From now on, the Activities Director said, the administration will make its determination of students’ qualifications after elec To hold conference on human relations

“Human Relations at Home and Abroad” will be the subject of a two day conference to be sponsored by the Calvert Club in conjunction with the college program committee of the Catholic Interracial Council of Chicago tomorrow and Sunday.

Tomorrow at 8:30 p.m. at the Calvert Club there will be a social meeting of all the people attending the conference. The purpose of this meeting is not only to give all those attending a chance to register but also to give them a chance to get acquainted.

The remaining sessions of the meeting will take place at International House on Sunday.

students are disqualified after having been elected, runnfrs-up will probably take their place on UC delegations.

whether they are guilty of discrimination or segregation. An amendment to restrict the scope of the investigation to treatment

10 finalists compete today in Adams poetry test

Finals for the Florence James Adams Poetry Reading Contest will be held in Breasted Hall of the Oriental Institute at 3:30 p.m. today. Preliminary readings were held on April 23 for over 30 participants.

The 10 finalists in this annual contest are: Paul Alexander, Donald Brown. Robert Emmitt. Marshall Hartman, Frank

‘You should know the past and it shall make new art’

John Dos Passos, delivering a William Vaughn Moody lecture before an initially packed Mandel Hall on April 22, declared, “It’s sort of a universal law that in literature and art you always have to go back a little in order to go forward If the language is cut off from its past it may die out.”

Continuing his lecture entitled “The Classics Are Nearer

Nelson, Marcus Raskin, Carlisle Rast, James Stockdale, Miss Caroline Swensen, and Jurgen Thomas. They are vying for three prizes of $75, $30, and $25, for first, second and third place, respectively.

According to Mrs. Mullin, representing the Department of English, the final judging will be done by Russell Thomas, professor of humanities in the college; Elder Olson, associate professor of English, and Reuel Denney, associate

professor of social sciences in the college.

To carry out what is believed to have been Mrs. Adams’ intention, judging will be done by placing more stress on interpretative reading than on declamatory aspects of vocal expression. The reading is therefore from a book and not “recitation.”

As was the case with the pre-liminaries, the public is cordially invited to attend these finals.

Than You Think” in the same vein, Dos Passos stated, “The first duty of a people is to preserve the energy of the language. It has to grow or it deteriorates. When you fall in love with your language, one of your main delights in it is its constant changing in the mouths of those who speak it.

“But,” he continued, "language has a heritage and is rooted in the past ... In order to understand it you have to know its past.”

"If you know Chaucer thoroughly. you’re well prepared to begin the pilgrimage of English literature. Chaucer is hard to read

Socialists take part in May Day rally

The University of Chicago branch of the Socialist Party is sponsoring a work session on the Socialist platform and “problem# of recruitment” from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. tomorrow at Hal Charbnau's apartment, 6042 Ingleside.

At 8:30 p.m. tomorrow, UC Socialists will take part in a May Day rally at the Douglas Park theater building. On Sunday a dinner and social will be sponsor ed by the Italian branch of the

'Analysis unnecessary for good life, but needed for ethical system'—Gewirth

but everything worth doing is going to cost work,” he declared.

Socialist Partv at 3800 W. Chios £M Avenue. UC students invited.

“Ethics is psychopathic” and “psychoanalysis is immoral” were two statements on the relation between morals and psychoanalysis placed in antithesis by Allen Gewirth, associate

professor of philosophy, in a lecture on “Psychoanalysis and Ethics,” delivered Tuesday at

8 p.m. in Breasted Hall.

This antithesis was part of a dialectic, constructed by Gewirth, opposing the thesis that

ethics harmonizes with psychoanalysis. The product of the dialectic was a partial synthesis

and an evaluation of the contrasting ideas. It was concluded that “psychoanalysis is not necessary or sufficient for an ethical life,” but that “knowledge of psychoanalysis is necessary to the development of an ethical system.”

Gewirth sees much of the difficulty in establishing the relationship between psychoanalysis and ethics as centering around ambiguity in the meaning of ethics and differences in the interpretations of psychoanalysis. Ethics, as he sees it, can be defined in terms of what people do, what they say should be done, and what people should really do. The first two of these he called “positive”; the third, “normative.”

Psychoanalysis ambiguous

On the other hand, psychoanalysis is ambiguous in function: is its purpose merely the removal of mental pain, along with a rejection or separation from ethics, or does psychoanalysis have a moral

purpose—the inculcation of ethical principles?

A conflict between morals and psychoanalysis arises when moralists judge analysts and when analysts judge moralists.

The usual criticism of psychoanalysts by ethicists charges that, in attempting to help individuals to adjust, it does not distinguish between moral and immoral methods of achieving adjustment. Analysts, judging ethics, claim that they lead to neuroses by developing repressions in the individual. They would eliminate moralistic standards in favor of objective evaluation of patients’ conditions.

Normative ethics desirable

However, Gewirth continued, this criticism by psychoanalysts is directed at positive ethics. Positive ethics can lead to neuroses, since they are usually relativistic' and frustrate anyone who tries to make them fit ail situations. Normative ethics, unlike positive morals, always direct men to the right course of action.

The aim of psychology can, therefore, be considered to be the substitution of normative for positive ethics, a process of “moral enlightenment” and “a productive orientation dictated by humanistic ethics.”

PHOTOGRAPHERS

MIDWAY 3-4433

1171 EAST 55th STREET

We tolerate drinking and whispering Jimmy’s

1172 E. 55th

fix door to y^

(offierb f louse^

is iw open | □□

'Geser.'Atio^s: hyoepark 5'4500

When you pause...make it count...have a Coke

•omen under authority of the coca-coia company y Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Chicago, Inc.

•Colt*" it a rtgltltrad trade-mark. April 30, 1954

THE CHICAGO MAROON

Page 3

Birenbaum to enforce

'illegal' regulations

Mc Keon opens law congress

Director of Student Activities William Birenbaum disclosed

this week that he intends to enforce five regulations added to

jurists to link law and politics

the Student Code despite a ruling by the Student-Faculty Administration Court that they are illegal (MAROON, April 16). Top leaders in Student Government immediately took issue with his decision.

The president of Student Government, Clive S. Gray, admitted that the five rules

the five regulations will be an integral part of the Student Code when it is reprinted in the fall.

Jurisprudence and politics will be the topic for the fifteenth UC Law School conference today. The morning session, in Breasted Hall, will begin at 10 a.m. The luncheon at 12:15 p.m. and the dinner at 6:30 p.m. will both be held in the Quadrangle Club.

Richard P. Mc Keon, the Charles F. Grey distinguished service professor of philosophy at UC, will open the morning session with an address on “Philosophic Presuppositions and the Relations of Legal Systems.” Also speaking at the 10 a.m. session will be Myres Smith Mc“don’t seem to amount to very much.” but added that “Birenbaum is setting a bad precedent and I hope he is not going to hold out against the court's decision.” R. Marlin Smith (ISL-law), chairman of the Government’s elections and rules committee, said he doubted that the activities director could be enjoined by the Court from enforcing the regulations but said he is willing to try to have Birenbaum enjoined.

Blaming a lack of understanding on the part of the student leaders for the dispute, Birenbaum said that some of the regulations had been approved by the executive council of the Government at the time the rules were added and

that the other rules are out of the province of Student Government.

Birenbaum pointed out that the statute of the court does not give it the power to nullify regulations which have not been passed by the Assembly.

The disputed regulations deal mainly with social affairs and with the use of University property for outdoor posters.

Gray and Elias M. Stein (ISLphy sci), chairman of the committee on recognized student organizations. protested that the executive council has no authority to approve regulations on behalf of the Government.

Paul E. Breslow (SRP-soc sci), minority leader, said he was familiar with all the actions of the executive council at the time the rules were added to the Code and insisted that he does not rememtier the council approving the added regulations.

At week’s end, Birenbaum was holding firm. Ue announced that

William Birenbaum

Clubs join for tea

Members of the Inter - Club Council have decided to have “a combined summer tea” in September. All entrants who are eligible for club membership will be invited to attend the tea. The tea will be given before Orientation Week. “This is not a rushing tea, but its purpose will be to acquaint all entering students with the clubs,” stated Ruth Kopel, IC Council president.

This Sunday members of the Women’s clubs and their mothers are invited to attend a mothers’ luncheon given by the Sigma Club. The luncheon will take place at the South Shore View hotel.

Starting next fall the IC Council will begin organizing an Inter Club chorus. Definite plans concerning membership will be announced in the fall.

Dougal, Yale Law School professor and John Newbold Hazard, Columbia Law School professor. Mc Dougal will discuss “What Is International Law?” and Hazard, “A Comparison of Some Main Concepts of Soviet and Anglo-American Law.”

Name speakers

Speaking at the 12:30 p.m. session on “Freedom and State Action" will be Lon L. Fuller, professor of law at Harvard University. Other speakers will be Frank H. Knight. Morton D. Hull, distinguished service professor at UC; John Jewkes, professor of economic organization, Oxford University, and visiting professor at the UC law school; and Thomas A. Cowan, professor of law at Wayne University and visiting professor of law at Rutgers University.

A public lecture at 4:30 p.m., under the auspices of the Charles R. Walgreen Foundation, will be a special feature of the conference. Hans Keisen, professor of international law at the Naval War Col Registration for draft deferment closes May 14

All students expecting to seek continued student selective servlege, will speak on “Democracy and Economics” at this session which will be held at the Social Science Research building, 1126 East 59th Street.

List speeches

Speakers at the dinner session are Scott Buchanan, former dean of St. John’s College, and Edward Shils, professor on the UC’s Committee on Social Thought. Buchanan will speak on “Law as an Influence in Social Policy,” and Shils, on “Beyond the Law; The Forma Richard B. Mc Keon

tion of Social Policy.”

Presiding over the morning, luncheon and dinner sessions in that order are Malcolm Sharp, Max Rheinstein and Karl Llewellyn; all professors of law in the law school at UC.

Committee given

Members of the conference committee are: Allison Dunham, chairman; James M. Ratcliffe, Walter J. Blum, Brainerd Currie, Harry Kalven, Jr., and Philip B. Kurland, all of the law school at UC.

Campus footpaths to be re-seeded

The fence-off areas on the quadrangles will not be made into new sidewalks, as many students thought, a Buildings and Grounds spokesman said yesterday. The fenced-off areas are in such widely traversed places as the paths across the lawn in front of Harper Library or from Ryerson Laboratory to the auto circle where the grass has been beaten down by countless footsteps.

The areas will be re-seeded in an effort to “get a little more green on campus,” the spokesman said.

Midwestern Hillel Institute

longer, straighter, consistently!

ice system deferment must request the Registrar to submit SSS form 109 to his local board before May 14. The student must also notify his local board that he is continuing his studies in the University or in another institution, that he is seeking deferment as a student, and that he has asked the Registrar to prepare SSS form 109.

Students may obtain the official letter for this purpose from the Office of the Registrar. Room 103, Administration Building.

Selective Service registrants should file an SSS card and request the 109 form to be sent according io the following schedule between the hours of 10 a.m. and 3:30 p.m.

Students whose last names begin with the letter:

A, B. C—May 3

D, E, F, G—May 4

H, I, J—May 5

K, I.—May 6

M. N—May 7

O, P, Q, R—May 10

S—May 11

T. U, V, W,

X, Y, Z—May 12

to meet at Iowa university

“Living as a Jew Today” will be the theme of the Midwestern Hillel Institute this weekend at the University of Iowa.

Among the activities planned are discussion groups, studentconducted Sabbath services, and a picnic .dinner.

Representing the Hillel foundation at UC will be the new executive council, the folk dance group, and five official delegates. The new officers are: president, Harry Weininger; vice president, Bernard Faras to discover oneself while discovering others.”

CHANGE TO THE SPALDING BALL POWER-RATED FOR YOUR GAME

SPALDING AIR-FLITE*

The perfect compression for the hard-hitting, low-scoring golfer. Tru-Tension Winding assures absolute uniformity, consistent maximum distance with sweet “feel.” Its Lifetime White Cadwell cover—resists scuffing, bruises.

SPALDING KRO-FLITE®

If you require a ball with extra durability, play Kro-Flite. Powered for maximum distance, fortified with special, rugged Cadwell cover. And it’s Lifetime White — Spalding’s tough, high-gloss permanent whiteness. Won’t chip or yellow.

Spaldin G

MORE GOOD GOLFERS PLAY SPALDING THAN ANY OTHER BAU

May 13—Students who could not (for good reason) prepare and file the SSS card on the date scheduled.

kas; recording secretary, Janice Mark; corresponding secretary, Joyce Allen, and treasurer, Gil Ginsburg. Sue Tolmy will lead the dance group in a recital.

Other schools participating in the program will be Wisconsin, Minnesota, Northwestern, Nebraska, Washington, Bradley, and St. Louis.

Oscar Kenig, director of Hillel at UC, described the purpose of the Institute as “providing for an intellectual give and take, as well

3 ALEXANDER'S THE GREAT *

J1 PLACE TO EAT OFF CAMPUS I

; OPEN DAY AND NIGHT ;

; YOUR HOSTS WILL BE I

! GEORGE KYROS PETE HRISTAKOS •

C 1137-39 East 63rd Street I

’ 

Sunday at 7:30 p.m., Hillel at 5715 Woodlawn will hold its last social event of the year, an open house. There will be dancing, games, and refreshments.

On Monday at 12:30 p.m., Hug Ivri will present Morris Altman, professor, college of Jewish studies, in a discussion in Hebrew of Fighters, four one-act plays by Yitchak Sade.

The second of a series of three seminars led by Benno Landsberger, professor of Assyriology, Oriental Institute, will be held in the Hillel library at 8 p.m. It will be a seminar on religion. On Monday, May 10, there will be a seminar on laws.

Hillel Foundation the religious organization designed to unite UC students of Jewish faith provides recreational and social, as well as religious facilities at the Karasik house through social affairs ranging from serious discussion to folk dancing.

PAUL ROBESON

SINUS

ALLEN BOOTH AT THE PIANO MANDEL HALL Saturday, May 8th, 8:30 P.M.

Reserved Seats $1.50

General Admission $1.00

Tickets at S.G. Ticket Agency, Reynolds Club

Presented by SRP Cultural Committee THE CHICAGO MAROON

April 30, 1954

Issued once weekly by the publisher. The Chicago Maroon, at the publication office, 5706 South University Avenue, Chicago 37, Illinois. Telephones: Editorial Office, Midway 3-0800, Ext. 1010; Business and Advertising Offices, Midway 3-0800, Ext. 1009. Distributed free of charge, and subscriptions by moil, $3 per year. Business Office hours: I to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday.

Arthur Brown Richard E. Ward

editor-in-chief manasing editor

News editors: Noomi Birnbaum, Allen Jonger

News Feature editor: Nellie Stoneman

Feature editor: Daniel Queen

Sports editor: Paul A. Hoffman

Copy editor: Joy Burbach

Advertising manager: Reva Brown

IF-IC Dance

at ADPhi house open to campus

“Members of the Inter-Fraternity and Inter-Club Pledge Council are busy making last minute arrangements for the IF -1 C Pledge Dance on Friday, May 7,” reported Ronald Gottsegen, Pledge Council chairman. The entire campus is invited to come to the Alpha Delta PHi House and dance to the music of Dick Gerwin's band. The dance starts at 8:30 p.m.

Tickets can be bought from members of the 1F-1C Pledge Council or from the Student Serv Forget about it, kid; Aristotle disproved that in the 149th book of the Metaphysics.

Production manager: Joanna Herlihy

Page one assistant: Mitchell Slein

Copy staff: Jerry Ex, Pam Brown, Jock Burbach, William Brandon, Carlsson

Photographer: Joe Wolf

Jean

Editorial staff: Brina Boilin, Robert Bloch, Davis Bobrow, Poul Breslow, Stephen Cohen, Diane Epstein, Al Fortier, Lennie Friedman, Suzanne Friedman, Miriam Garfin, Richard Herwitt, Ralph B. Hirsch, Roberta Hopkins, Brina Jaffee, Justin Johnson, Jan Majde, Neal Mermall, Arnie Matanky, Spike Pinney, Elaine Pamper, Bob Quinn, Karl Rodman, Wolf Roder, David Schlessinger, Judy Smith, Warren Spachner, Frank G. Ternenyi, John Twomey

ice Center in the basement of Reynolds Club. Tickets sell for $1.50 and the proceeds from the dance will be given to Cancer Research Foundation.

Committee chairmen for the dance are Bill Kidd and Armand Matusen (decorations), Brina Jaffee (tickets), Chjuck Mittman (entertainment), and Binnie Rosenberg (band).

Letters Editors 

Parties wane as split ballots decide

Controversy necessary

Serious questions have been raised by SRP’s decision to sponsor Paul Robeson, an artist of great ability, in a concert to be given in Mandel Hall on May 8th. Because of his political views, Mr. Robeson has long been denied the opportunity to perform.

Mr. Birenbaum, Director of Student Activties, has sent us a letter which acknowledges our right to present Mr. Robeson but questions our judgment in choosing to

by Arthur Brown

Four salient points emerge from the results of the election of delegates to the National Student Association.

1. The election was a resounding defeat for ISL. Not only did SRP take 13 out of the 20 places, but this was the first time that ISL had ever lost an NSA election.

2. The number of split ballots was extraordinarily large. For National Delegate, ISL candidates were first, third and fifth in number of votes received; SRP took second and fourth

present a man whose here may harm the Our decision included ing considerations:

appearance University, the follow It is important that students make the opportunity to hear Mr. Robeson; first, because many

have never had the chance to hear him, and second, because by doing so we refuse to accede to a policy of suppressing those whose views are controversial. The University, by recognizing our right to present him, has also refused to accede, and for this it is to be congratulated; it is of such stuff that our tradition of academic freedom is built.

From a short run view, the University ot Chicago may be hurt by Mr. Robeson’s presence, for there exists concrete pressure for conformity. The major danger to this University is not that Mr. Robeson appear on its campus— it is that we conform to such pressure.

We believe the hallmark of a free institution is the exercise of its rights in controversial as well as in non controversial instances.

Student Representative Party

spots. For the National Alternates the the results were reversed wi t h SRP coming in first, third, and fifth, ISL getting the remaining two seats.

3. To some extent the party system broke down. Leaders for SRP in

Arthur Brown

both of the national categories (Dick Ward and Fred Solomon) were not SRP party members but were independents running under SRP sponsorship. On the other hand, such party stalwarts as Paul Ereslow, chairman of SRP, Frank Kirk of SRP, Eli Stein of Is L and chairman of CORSO in SG, and Howard Turner of ISL and chairman of the student needs committee of SG failed to get elected. Also the only independent running, Phil Wyatt, received a very large vote for someone running Without party backing, although he was not elected.

4. The majority of the campus is not interested enough in student politics to bother voting. The total number of voters was quite low. 25.7% of the eligible voters cast ballots; however, this represents an increase of 3.4% over the NSA election last year.

The reaction of the ISL leaders to this election is one of almost complete gloom. They state that voters cast their ballots on the basis of personality, a fact which means the end of an all campus political party system. In the future, they believe, there will be a doim parly, a fraternity party, etc., resulting in SG being composed of a large number of small parties. The plans for ISL for next year (if there is to be an ISL next year) are uncertain.

On the other hand, SRP claims that the campus was presented with a good platform and capable candidates, and that the campus responded with support of SRP.

However, no mater which analysis one agrees with, it is obvious that the political structure of the campus has changed from what it has been over the last five years.

looking over the voter’s shoulder while he is marking his ballot in order to point out the merits of the various candidates. If more students are to be encouraged to vole, this annoying practice must be halted. The Flection and Rules committee of Student Government should enforce its rule concerning no campaigning within 10 feet of the polling place and it should furnish private booths or tables for the voter to mark his ballot.

JO BANKS Creative Photography

6457 Cottage Grove MU 4-7365

WHf R# Tfi E. Uof C l? ^EETS TO EAT

FOOD

1321 East 57th Street

1 he delightful story of a gent who went on a wild weekend with his fast moving first loved named

and took his wife along! Dinah Sheridan • Kay Kendall John Grenon

in technicolor

Todov of

6 30 8 15 10 00

diarbown ai division

Students presenting their ID cords , at box office will be admitted for 50c ony week night. Saturdays and Sundays until 5 p.m.

The MAROON received the usual number of complaints about the “help” given voters by campaigners. This “help” consists of

Portraits by

LOUISE BARKER

Photographer

1457 E. 57th St.

NO 7-907!

THE

with Robert

HIDE PAKK 1IIEA1HE

International House Movie Program

Assembly Holl, Monday and Thursday Evenings ot 8:00 P.M.

Admission 3 5c

Monday, Moy 3 — THE CANTOR'S SON (American, in Yiddish)

Thursday, Moy 6 — THE SNAKE PIT (American)

BU 8-0876

LAKE PARK at 53rd

Starting Friday, April 30

A first-rote film biography of

GREAT GILBERT AND SULLIVAN

Morley os W. S. Gilbert and Maurice Evons as Arthur

Sullivan. Plenty of G and S operetta excerpts by Martyn Green and the D'oyly Carte company.

— with —

Noel - Noel's "Spice of Life"

“Utterly delightful witty and urbane"—Cue Mag

COMING FRIDAY, MAY 14 — FIRST CHICAGO SHOWING SALT OF THE EARTH

Student Rote 50c All Performonces If You Present Your ID Cord ot the Boxoffice

the dark theatre modison

spring, film festival 30 great films in 15 days, may 2 2thru may 16 sun. 2: john wayne in john ford's "quiet man

alec guiness in "the

mon. 3—"the lody vonishes" "here comes mr. jordan"

tues. 4—"it happened one nite" "the commandos strike ot down"

wed. 5—"we were strangers" "knock on ony door"

thurs. 6—"omericon in paris" "tonight ond every night"

fri. 7—"jiir

"stoirwoy to heaven"

sot. 8—"the 39 steps" "suspicion" ,

sun. 9—"poison" ;

"Bullfighter fir the lady" * *

lavender hill mob" mon. 10—"the heat's on

"above and beyond" lues. 11—"crash of silence

"mon on a tightrope" wed. 12—"the snoke pit" "gentleman's agreement'’ thurs. 13—"no highway in the

sky" "come bock, little sheba" fri. 14—"brief encounter"

"the bicycle thief"

sat. 15—"gildo" ,

"westward the women" sun. 16—"counselor ot tow"

J

an undergraduate favorite. •. our "346" GABARDINE SUIT

Our attractive”346” worsted gabardine suits are made with swelled edges, patch pockets with flaps and center back vent... in our own distinctive shade. All sizes, including extra

longs. Coat and trousers

$88

”346” Tropical Worsted Suits, $68 '346” Lightweight Tweed Sport Jackets, $58 and $62

ISTABLISHCD 1*1*

XPTHIN

Mtns Furnishings. Hats ^hoes

346 MADISON AVENUE, COR. 44TH ST., NEW YORK 17, N. Y BOSTON • CHICAGO • LOS ANGELES • SAN FRANCISCO April 30, 1954

THE CHICAGO MAROON

Page 3

Tug well calls Roosevelt's political success "luck"

by Miriam Garfin and Mitchell Slein

In a lecture given before the Politics Club, Rexford Guy Tugwell laid the basis to Franklin Roosevelt’s political success to “Roosevelt luck.”

Tugwell traced the Roosevelt career from 1910, when he ran for New York State Senate in Albany, until 1932 when

he was elected president.

At the outset of the lecture Tugwell made mention of two important decisions in the early Roosevelt career. The first of these was Roosevelt’s decision to run for the New York State Senate on the Democratic ticket in a solid Republican district. His winning because of the split in-the Republican party coupled with his bucking of Tammany Hall was the result of this choice.

Backed Wilson in 1911

The other decision which Tugwell claimed influenced the rest of FDR s career was his decision to back Woodrow Wilson for the 1911 Democratic nomination for president. Wilson won and Roosevelt became Assistant Secretary of the Navy.

Continuing his tracing of the Roosevelt career, Tugwell noted Roosevelt’s loss to Tammany Hall in the 1914 primary for US Senate and his turning down of Tammany Hall nomination for governor of New York in 1918. Of this last incident, Tugwell was careful to point out that Roosevelt’s refusal to accept the nomination for governor was caused by his belief that he had to be in uniform for his political career. Paridoxically, the war ended too soon for his enlistment.

Nominated for V-P in 1920

Tugwell then continued the Roosevelt history to 1920 when FDR was nominated for the vicepresidency, because of his connec Budweiser has been a thirsty spectator’s delight as long as baseball can

When you know your beer IT'S bound TO be m

Marseille, France. Labadie is one of 239 American students to receive an award for study in France during the academic year 1954-55.

Maurice E. Cope is going to the University of Florence, Italy, to study art history. Cope and Labadie were selected by the Board of Foreign Scholarships, appointed by the United States President.

Robert Thomas Harms, a student in the humanities division, has been appointed to the University of Helsinki, Finland, for the academic year 1954-1955, for the study of Slavic languages.

Harms received his appointment through the Illinois State Fulbright competition, rather

tions with Wilson. Although the Democrats lost that year, Roosevelt emerged as the best known Democrat in the country. Tugwell attributed this to his vigorous campaigning.

From 1920 until 1928, Roosevelt lived in semi-private retirement. It was during this era of his life that he contracted polio. Tugwell devoted great length to Roosevelts “moral strength.’’ He lingered over Roosevelt’s fight to regain full use of his body.

Drafted for governorship

Then when Al Smith was nominated for the presidency in 1928, Roosevelt was drafted for the governorship of New York.

Calvert sponsors Catholic life talks

Sunday evening the Calvert Club will sponsor tw’o open lectures on the subject of Catholic life in Italy and England. These lectures are planned primarily for students living on campus, especially Catholics. Lecturing on Catholic life in Italy will be Dr. Mariano La Via and lecturing on Catholic life in England will be William Bujan Dockrell. Both are students who have studied in the countries they will discuss.

The program will begin at 5 p.m. and dinner will begin at 6 p.m.

Midway mallards surprise students

Two mallard ducks were observed paddling on the Midway between Burton Judson and Harper Library yesterday morning. The ducks were probably no surprise to B-J residents who have found taking shortcuts across the Midway impossible this week due to recent rainfall.

Normally there is no water on the Midway and therefore no ducks. It w'as not determined' whether any fish inhabit the Midway, yet.

A Maroon reporter noted that many juicy worms were floating in the water. These would serve as possible duck food, he surmised.

There was one male and one female duck.

Harvard seminar: NSA to provide complete stipends

Twelve scholarships to Harvard University are being offered in connection with the second annual International Student Relations Seminar sponsored by Harvard and the National Student Association International commission.

Running from July 12 to September 1, the seminar covers a six week study program with scholars and students from all over the world. The scholarships provide transportation, tuition, room and board.

Interested students may obtain information and applications from Clive Gray, president of Student Government, in Room 302 Reynolds Club or the Student Service Center in the basement of Reynolds Club.

Mr. Taft, discussing the part small nations or racial and religious minorities play in democracy, outlined the way in which “our diversity is our strength.” He felt that inter parliamentary groups such as the United Nations are becoming more and more significant. “These groups will continue to be the forum where world disputes are discussed and small nations whose voices are combined make lots of noise,” Taft stated.

Minorities improve government

“Our government believes in the welfare of minorities,” continued Taft. He quoted Dulles’ statement “Freedom implies diversity” and continued, “Minorities are meant to improve government. This is a philosophy which we should cherish and be proud of. We should promote and advertise this philosophy everywhere,” declared Taft.

Taft then discussed an embassy’s task, especially in a small, neutral country such as Ireland. “The United States is misunderstood by many even in Ireland,” he said. “The major task of our

Taft: ‘Major task ending prejudice9

“One of the major tasks of our embassies today is the dissipation of anti-American prejudice,” stated William Howard Taft III, U.S. Ambassador to Ireland. Mr. Taft, the grandson of Ex-President Taft and son of the late Senator Taft, spoke on “American Policy Toward Small Nations” last Wednesday in Soc. Sci. 122.

embassy today is to explain what the U. S. is like. We must accept this prejudice and attempt to dissipate it.”

Publicity offends Europeans

According to Taft, the greatest difficulty arises from our attempt to “sell” America with brash American publicity techniques which “offend the taste of Europeans.” Anti-Americanism in Europe is generated primarily by our press abroad. Sensationalism throughout our literature provides fuel for prejudice. Taft cited in particular Time magazine’s coverage of Dr. Kinsey’s research as offensive to Irish morality. “The embassy’s task is to show that American newspapers don’t represent America as she really is,” stated Taft.

Politically, Taft said, “Ireland is a neutral nation which has not joined NATO and doesn’t see the necessity of joining in collective defense against communism — against atheism. Our job is to disentangle the issues for the Irish people. They do not see the task we have of preserving freedom.”

Fulbright scholarships go to

three more UC students

Three UCers have been awarded Fulbright scholarships to study in Europe.

James H. Labadie, of the humanities division, will study. French language and literature at the University of Aixthan through the national competition.

Dr. Plzak speaks to Pre-Meds

Dr. Louis F. Plzak, associate clinical professor of surgery at the Strich School of Medicine, will speak on “Twenty-five tears of Medical Practice,” Wednesday at 4 p.m. in Abbott 420. The talk, sponsored by the Pre-Med Club, deals with the changing of countenance of medicine and disease in the past quarter of a century. Refreshments will be served at 3:30 p.m.

A CASA Book Store

CHOICE USED BOOKS New Lot Just Arrived

Guaranteed typewriter repair service 1117 E. 55th St. HY 3-9651

HARRY A. ZISOOK & SONS

University District Renting Office

MAYFLOWER HOTEL 6125 KENWOOD AVENUE

Let us help you

GET OUT OF THE ROOMING HOUSES AND SUBSTANDARD BUILDINGS IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD For the convenience and accommodation of the Students, Faculty and Employees of the University we have opened a University District Renting Office to serve you in obtaining better housing.

Come in and let us know what your requirements are so that we may assist you.

AVAILABLE NOW AND/OR MAY 1st

Hotel rooms with private bath and shoiver

Sgl.—$8 per wk.; dbl.—$12 per wk.

Hotel apts. with switchboard and maid service

1 rm. furnished apts. at $67 and $73

2^ rm. furnished apt. at $85

. If rm. unfurnished apt. at $85

office hours 9 a.m. to 5 p.m Monday thru Friday THERE IS NO CHARGE FOR THIS SERVICE

main office

HARRY A. ZISOOK & SONS

Real Estate

1711 E. 71st PL 2-5960

Serving Chicagg^ince 1907 ,;

 R* 6

THE CHICAGO MAROON

April 30, 1999

A-Bomb as social problem led to Chicago scientists' organization

k Robert March

In the fall of 1945, while the world was rocked in confusion, fear, and awe over the terrible new weapon that had been born at White Sands, a group of scientists met in Chicago to form the Atomic Scientists of Chicago (ASC), a unique type of political organization.

They were brought together by a conviction that the atomic bomb was not just another weapon, but an enormous social problem that science could not dump in the lap of society with the scientists usual “we made it — you control it?’

This organization soon grew

into the nation-wide Federation of American Scientists.

Urged civilian control

The first issue faced by the infant group was civilian vs. military control of atomic research. They supported the Mc Mahon bill, which led to civilian control. It is interesting to note that at this time, Dr. J. Robert Oppenheimer was one of the few atomic scientists who favored military control.

Dr. Arthur Rosenfeld, a research associate at UC’s Institute for Nuclear Studies and chairman of the Chicago group, phrases the problenj faced by the Atomic Scientists thus: “There is no 'atomic secret,’ by which we can maintain atomic superiority by security measures; nor is there a defense against the bomb. The world must face the problem of living in peace or having atomic war.”

Support control measures

The Federation hopes to achieve its ends by supporting international control of atomic energy and other social measures that bring the benefits of science to the world as a whole, by counteyng misinformation with scientific fact, by extending international cooperation of scientists, and by safeguarding the spirit of free scientific inquiry.

Typical of the ASC’s approach to these problems is that of Richard Meier, a member of its execu NSA 1 from page 1) seven votes were cast. In last year s NSA election, 31.6 per cent of the campus voted.

SRP members expressed their enthusiasm over the election results, stating that they felt the returns indicated the campus’ acknowledgment of SRP's platform. Larry Lichtenstein (SRP) believes that the campus has seen a ‘deceit thing in politics for the first tijne.” ’’Students had a good .slate offered and they supported it,” he added.

Sites positive achievements

Fred Solomon (Slip) said that he considered the election a victory for the ‘ positive progress of SRP.”

"I hope the election will become a precedent for future ones where tne choices will be on the basis of who can build better, instead of on the basis of who can smear better,” was the opinion of Vera John (SRP).

Mar*us Raskin (SRP) said "the voters have clearly shown which party chey support.”

"I am tremendously pleased:” stated Paul Breslow. "The campus has shown that it prefers constructive liberalism to cynical politicking.”

On the other side of the political scene, ISL’ers were disappointed. However, they were confident that they would be more successful in next year’s election. # Finds ISL over confident

Stan Fox (ISL) thought SRP’s victory not a complete one, but rather a “moral victory.” “ISL was overconfident; next year things will be different,” he also

tive committee. Meier, though a chemist by training, has joined the staff of the planning committee at UC to study the problem of controlling the social effect of scientific developments.

Aid “Bulletin'' *

The Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, the internationally-famous publication with the “minutes-to-midnight” emblem on its jacket, is published on campus by a group of atomic scientists, many of whom are members of the Chicago group.

Most ASC members are active scientists, but a significant number are non-scientists interested in the problems posed by atomic science. A notable example is Edward Shils of ,the Committee on Social Thought, who serves on the staff of the Bulletin. Membership is derived primarily from UC faculty and students, and staff of the Atomic Energy Commission’s Argonne Laboratories.

Meet weekly in Commons

One of the important activities of the ASC is a program of weekly luncheon meetings to discuss topics relating to the social effects of science. For example, they recently held a discussion, with planning specialists, of the feasibility of evacuating Chicago in the event of an air raid. (They decided it wasn't very feasible). They also heard many of the candidates in

show a trend to a regular type of college.”

“A limited victory is better than no victory,” thought Al Coleman (ISL). “We’ve been through this befoie and we’re still here to stay.”

Jan Porter, said she w'as pleased with the election results. “Not only the fact that SRP obtained a majority, but that the independents on the slate helped make this possible.”

In the excitement of party success or in the disappointment of loss, some politicians made only brief comments:

"I congratulate the victors,” was the statement of Eli Stein (ISL).

“It’s great,” said Shirley Long (SRP).

"Hurrah!” cried Karl Rodman, “Watch our smoke in SG next year.”

"I’m very disappointed,” stated Roger Woodworth (ISL).

Tillich appointed to FTS faculty

Dr. Paul Tillich, distinguished theologian and professor of philosophical theology at Union Theological Seminary, will be a visiting professor at the University of Chicago during the month of January, 1955, Seward Hiltner, acting dean of the Federated Theological Faculty, announced.

Dr. Tillich will come directly to Chicago from St. Andrew’s University, Scotland, after delivering the world-famous Gifford lectures inl954.

During his stay in Chicago, Dr. Tillich will present 16 lectures at the University on “Existence and

said.

“The lack of clear differences between the party platforms deprived the average voter of an understanding of the opposing political philosophies,” claimed Bruce Larkin. The voting shows that personality was an unusually emphasized criterion and that experience and performance in campus politics were weighted less strongly.”

Greene alalyzies vote

Peter Greene (ISL) expressed a similar opinion: “people seem to be tired of organizations and instead have voted on personality.” He added, “The prediction is that next year there will be many small parties in SG. It seems to

the recent primaries, and discussed with MAROON managing editor Dick Ward his trip to the USSR. The luncheon meetings are held in the private dining room of the Commons, Thursdays from 12 noon to 1:26 p.m. and are open to the general public. Dr. Rosenfeld urged all interested students to attend.

Recently the scientists have been very concerned with problems of security. In a statement on the Fort Monmouth investiga-tions, they pointed to the fact that a majority of the laboratories’ group heads resigned or made job applications elsewhere as a result of the investigation. They observed that not only is slander by investigating committees unjust to the individuals involved, but is reducing the potential of our military laboratories by driving out good men in fear or disgust. In a recent statement on the Oppenheimer case, eleven atomic scientists decried the “Seventeenth century political tactic of accusing your political opponents of treason.”

Outlook optimistic

Above all, the outlook of the ASC is optimistic. They leel that atomic war and the destruction of civilization is not inevitable, and that all possible avenues for peaceful settlement of international disputes must be explored.

NSA delegation plans program

Yesterday afternoon the UC delegation to the National Students Association discussed the Illinois Regional Conference which will take place May 8 and 9.

A committee consisting of Bruce Larkin, Larry Lichtenstein, Clive Gray, Carolyn Eggert, Stan Fox, and Shirley Long will draw up a program of proposals based on the platforms of ISL and SRP.

The group also elected Dick Ward as chairman of their delegation.

UCLA columnist aids un-pinned

An innovation in college newspaper coverage is seen in the UCLA Daily Bruin where “The Roving Eye” column prints announcements of un-pinnings and broken engagements. These airings of broken romances are dedicated to "aid those persons who wish to get back into circulation more rapidly.”

A more sober bit of news from UCLA has been about the Model United Nations held last month eft Los Angeles. Under the sponsorship of UCLA more than 600 delegates from 75 colleges in western states, Alaska, Hawaii and Mexico met for a three-day model UN. All nations of the United Nations were represented by student delegates and actual world problems were discussed and acted upon.

the Christ” to students of the schools served by the Federated Theological Faculty: the Chicago Theological Seminary, the Disciples Divinity House, the Divinity School, and the Meadville Theological School.

In addition to the lecture, Dr. Tillich will offer a special seminar for a limited nymber of graduate students.

Dr. Tillich, retiring from Union Theological Seminary this spring, has served on the seminary staff since 1933 w'hen he left Germany at the time Hitler came into power.

He is author of numerous books, including The Courage to Be and Love, Power and Justice.

Secretary Io a VIP

"My day is packed to the brim with celebrities, phone calls, mountains of mail Thank goodness my Katie Gibbs training anticipated pressure along with the usual secretarial duties.”

Gibbs training opens doors for

college women to career opportunities in their chosen field. Special Course for College Women. Write College Dean for "Gibbs Gihi.s at Work.” ^

KATHARINE GIBBS

.' SECRETARIAL

BOSTON 16 90 Madbofough SI^NEW YORK 17, 230 Pirk>.

CHICAGO 11. 51 E Super.o> St PROVIDENCE 6. 155 Ansell St.

MONTCLAIR, N 1, 33 Plymouth St.

Four of the five elected notional delegates to NSA ore pictured obove. Bruce Larkin, Clive Gray, Jon Metros, and Dick Ward were available for the Maroon photographer. Larry Lictenstein, who placed fourth in the NSA balloting is not pictured.

After the election results were announced SRP members showed a dosed but jubilant expressions. Sandy Mogil is seated with Paul Breslow, SRP chairman on the left, in the background Frank Kirk, Sally Kirk, Don Anderson, Tom Conners, and Susie Friedman, await final vote tollies 01 Mascus Raskin, defeated SRP candidate talks to MAROON reporter Noomi Birnbaum. Roy John is seated on the table.

NSA election results

Elected Defeated

Notional

Clive Gray (592-ISL)

Dick Ward (446-SRP)

Bruce Larkin (5271b L)

Larry Lichtenstein 14M-SRP)

Jan Metros (453-ISL)

Notional

Fred Solomon (543 SRP) Barbara Vogeiianger (523-ISL) Fred Wilkerson (514-SRP) Al Fortier (494-ISL)

Lyn Burns (489-SRP)

Regional

Carolyn Eggert (541-SRP) James Rosenblum (533-SRP)

Stan Fox (495-ISL)

Sol Hirsh (472 SRP)

Suzanne Friedman (459-SRP)

Shirley Long (458-SRP)

Peter Greene (455-ISL)

David Hartley (452-SRP)

Bob Floyd (443 SRP)

James Vice (431-SRP)

Delegates

Dave Bobrow (443-SRP)

Paul Breslow (442-SRP) Eli Stein • 430-ISL)

Monica Kosaza (405-ISL) Karl Rodman (399-SRP) Phil Wyatt (313-Ind)

Alternates

Marcus Raskin (464-SRP) Emil Johnson (450-Ib L) Joe Brenner (432-ISL)

Frank Kirk (427-SRP)

Howard Turner (395-ISL)

Alternates

Allison Logan (419-ISL)

Coleman Seskind (414-SRP) Joli Lasker (414-ISt,) James Handler (413-ISL) David-Gerald Nash (412-SRP) Sabina Wagner (411-ISL) Gil Lincoln 1407-ISL) Bob Reichler (397-ISL) Ursula Matthiensen (380 ISL) Nona Miller (377-ISL) April 30, 1954

Various members of the student body view Mc Carthy hearings in Reynolds Club lounge.

Campus judges Maroon Collegiate 

Veterans given advice on right college behavior

y John Twomey

The increasing enrollment at UC of armed forces veterans under Public Law jo O (Korean Gl Bui) would seem to necessitate the following quotations from a guide on “How to be a Typical Vet Student” as published in the Ball State (College) News.

“1. Don’t buy any civvies the same color as your uniform This is a suuue gesture indicating your complete disgust with tne wnoie lousy mess.

2. Drink a minimum of 24 of coffee eacn day. Emoke siantly.

3. Jump under the chair claw mauiy every time you

cups conand hear

a loud noise. (Perfect way to - avoid questions in class.) Look embarrassed afterwards.

4. Smile knowingly whenever one of the following words is mentioned: Paris, Frankfurt, Tokyo, Honolulu, Mexico, California, Saki, Schnapps, furlough, shore leave, black market.

5. Laugh at these words: GI food, Kentucky, Missouri, Texas, Second Lieutenant, Ensign, draft board, and ROTC.

6. Use continental phrases such as: C’est la vie; C’est la guerre; Mochts nichts, Ach so, Toxson, Ichabon, etc.

Enrollments increase

A recent announcement by the US Commissioner of Education, S. M.’ Brow nell, stated that, "College and University enrollment in

Test curves curve abnormally in electronic scoring machine

College students studying for their comprehensives examination should be wary of advice on how to “pass comps” the easy way. Filling in all blanks on the answer sheets will not befuddle the 1MB scoring machines nor is it possible to receive a good mark because the over-all scoring curve is low for a particular examination The MAROON found these and other facts about the UC testing programs in interviews with Robert C. Woellner, director of vocational guidance and placements, and Benjamin S.

Bloom, acting University examiner. Bloom is also a prolessor in the department education, and Woellner is an sociate professor is the same partment.

UC most “test-minded"

of asde Woellner said that he believed that UC is the "most test-minded school in the country.” Students can enter the college with,virtually no other credentials than results which they receive on standardized UC entrance examination. These are given at intervals during the year, in more than 63 testing centers through the country, Woellner explained.

Test Administration, which Woellner heads, has the responsibility for coordinating the testing programs of the University. From January to December last year test administration gave 13,363 examinations. College placements (4,236) and comprehensive (5,342)

accounted for the bulk tests.

Other exams listed

Other examinatinons

ones for scholarships,

of these

included foreign

the United States has shown an upturn for the second consecutive year. Enrollment figures reported to the Office of Education by the nation’s 1,871 institutions of higher education . . enrollment of amounts to an of 4.8 per cent

. indicate a total 2,250,701,” This overall increase since the fall of

1952. Included in the announcement were figures indicating a 13.1 per cent increase in teachers college enrollment and a 6.1 per cent in liberal art colleges. The five universities with the highest enrollments are: New York University with 38,912 students, followed by the University of California (all campuses) with 33,382; City College of New York, 28,862; Columbia University, 24,870; and University of Illinois, 21,164.

In the April Fool edition of the Columbia Daily Spectator it was reported that Columbia’s bicentennial theme of “Man’s Right to Knowledge and the Free Use Thereof’’ had been changed to "What’s Good For General Motors Is Good Enough For Columbia.’’

language readin and admissions.

Much of the testing is done with the aid of electronic scoring equipment. Three IBM machines are used to score such exams as the placements and comprehensives. in the College. These machines will reject score sheets which have all answers blackened and can handle up to 250 tests. Examinations are rechecked on a second machine to detect possible errors.

"Low-curve" myth exploded

Bloom exploded the myth of the scoring process. In the early thirties, Bloom explained, examinations were marked on the basis of a normal distribution curve. He said that the top ten per cent would receive A’s and the bottom ten per cent would receive F’s. The figures*could vary slightly, but not much.

A distribution curve is still made for examination marks, Bloom stated. But he emphasized that the results are evaluated in several ways. These include taking into account the expected level of competance, results of

The Chicago MAROON, in its capacity as the major organ for the expression and formation of student opinion and as a vital channel of communication in the university community, has for a long time been a controversial topic on the UC campus. Many times dissatisfaction with and complaints against the MAROON have led to movements to establish rival newspapers which might effectively challenge the MAROON’s monopoly position as the recognized student press.

Cognizant of the general air of controversy which has traditionally surrounded the MAROON, a seminar in communication research undertook last spring an intensive study of the MAROON. The purpose of the research was objectively to gather and analyze data, thus affirming or denying the many allegations leveled at the MAROON.

Adler headed research

Kenneth Adler, instructor in Communication, headed the seminar in its endeavor to correlate student attitudes towards and readership of the MAROON with the content and apparent policies of the paper.

The data analyzed in the study was drawn from the following sources: -. A content analysis of twelve issues of the MAROON selected at random from issues published between October 1952 and May 1953. 2. An opinion survey of 142 students representing a stratified random sample of all students on the quadrangles. 3. A readership study conducted among the sample student group which analyzed their readership of every item printed in the May 8, 1953, issue of the MAROON. 4. Tabulations of activity figures on student organizations and athletic activities.

Crucial questions answered

The basic questions which the study sought answers to were essentially the following: To what extent does the MAROON reflect student interests at the University of Chicago? Is any particular political ideology or social philosophy stressed unduly by the editors of the MAROON? Does the MAROON give undue emphasis to certain types of news at the expense of other news students would like to read? In general, how well does the MAROON interpret the University to the student and to the larger public?

The findings of this study can only be highlighted in an article of this type and what follows is but a brief summary. The content analysis seemed to indicate a definite political emphasis when the percentages of the following subject matter categories are combined and analyzed; academic

requirements, previous tests, and correlating these and other factors to determine the distribution breaks in the scoring curve.

As proof that the “normal” curve is no longer used Bloom cited the results of our College comprehensive examination during a year he declined to name.

The highest number of A’s received on one examination was 29% of the students, whereas on another examination only six per cent received A’s. On two other comprehensives twenty-three and three per cent respectively.

Although it has been reported that some students prepare for their comprehensives in a week, the preparation of the examinations by the examiner take many months. The examination are drawn up by special examiners in consultations with faculty members. The examiners teach at least one course in subject for which they prepare exams.

It is rumored among College students that students having examiners as instructors get the highest marks. The MAROON was unable to substantiate this rumor.

The author of this article is o member of the Committee on Communications ond took part in the study whose results he reports here.

The MAROON staff finds the opinions expressed by the campus extremely interesting ond for the most part gratifying. We hope that the constructive effects of the critical remarks will be seen in future issues of the MAROON.

freedom and civil liberties—12% of MAROON content, civil rights and political ideology—8.4%, U. S. foreign policy and international relations —1.4%, campus politics, NSA and student government —10%. The totality of emphasis on this range of political subject matter accounts for one-third (33.4%) of the overall MAROON content.

Content analyzed

Articles and reviews on documentary films, art exhibits, concerts, theater, records and books take up 16% of total content. Academic policy and discussion of the University’s curriculum amounts to 12% of the paper’s content. The next largest space claiming subject is sports. Articles about Chicago teams and the University’s athletic program takes up 9.2%. Items on student affairs, including honors, awards and student profiles accounts for 6.1%. Faculty appointments, publications, profiles and honors are given 4.9% of MAROON space.

Two subjects given very low cover are religious and social affairs. Religion claims only .82% of the paper’s sp&ce. Social affairs, including popular entertainment accounts for only 3.2%.

Attitudes revealed

The opinion survey yielded a wealth of information about the basic attitudes the UC students hold towards their school newspaper. Between the 13% who read all MAROON items thoroughly and the 11% who manage to skim the entire paper lies the great majority of readers who devote their reading to items particular to their interests.

The parts mentioned as read regularly were the front page, with the highest percentage in this category of 37%, editorials 21% and want ads 16%. A more clear cut picture of popular items was gotten in response to the question as to what parts are usually read. Cultural affairs ranked first with 67%. Editorials are usually read by 64%. The letter-to-the-editor column and the calender of University events are popular with 63% of MAROON readers. SG news and campus politics claim 60% and local ads are usually read by 56%.

Some unanimity found

A degree of unanimity of opinion and satisfa tion with the MAROON’s coverage of off-campus events was also evidenced. A majority of 56% claim that non-campus news coverage is “about right.” Only 15% oppose this view by claiming it to be too small. Another 15% claim that the coverage of non-campus news in the MAROON is excessive. To 53% of the members of the sample campus news coverage is “about right.”

Critics amounting to 27% feel that campus news coverage fails to be broad enough.

While only 61% of the sample group felt themselves qualified from their knowledge of other student papers to rate the MAROON, it is significant that 75% of this group believed the MAROON to be either above average or “one of the best” of campus papers. The editorial policy of the MAROON is thought by the great majority to be one of a decided liberal nature. Between the extremes of the 4% who describe the editorial policy as a "conservative” one and the 11% who see it as being "radical left” are those who believe it to be “moderate” 8%, “liberal” 48%, and "between liberal and extreme left” 14%.

Criticisms voiced

Among the general crii.Usms about the MAROON the following should be noted. A need for more competent reporting and less bias was cited by 36%. An improved format and makeup with more photographs included was suggested by 37%. Student opinion about sport articles is significant in the light of the alleged antisports bias of the MAROON. While a sizable group of the sample participates were in non-departmental athletics (14%) and could be assumed to have an interest in sports, only 4% of the sample mentioned that the sports coverage (9% of the total MAROON content) was inadequate. The sports page is usually read by 39% and never read by 27%. No mention is made by this latter group that the sports coverage is too extensive. It would seem there5e “Maroon," page 12

Robert C. Woellner (above)

Miss Shirley Golden, supervisor of examination statistics, works at the IBM test scoring machine (below).

 April 30, 1954

Pag* 8

THE CHICAGO MAROON

Mexican scene from ''Acrodeo.'*

Acrotheatre performance opens tonight;

dancing, tumbling in New Mexican motif

“Acrodeo,** Acrotheatre’s major production for 1954, opens tonight for the first of three performances. There will be another performance tomorrow night and a Sunday matinee. The evening performances will begin at 8:30 p.m.,'the matinee at 2:30 p.m, in Mandel Hall.

Unlike previous shows, “Acrodeo’’ does not have a dramatic motif, but is set in New Mexico. Acortheatre will exhibit its stock of adagio and ballet dancers, tumblers, trampolinists, jugglers, and circus performers. 

The show will include two modern dance numbers “Sunset” and “Sister Sally Gets Her Man” choreographed by Mrs. Dolores Wharton. The latter is a square dance to Aaron Copeland’s “Hoedown,” and the former depicts a sunset, featuring Mrs. Wharton in the central role.

Miss Carolyn Osterberg will perform on the web, a circus aerial act. The “web” is a vertical rope with loops attached and will be suspended over the first few rows of the audience.

UT offers three one-act plays;

program emphasizes new talent, variety

Some new faces will be introduced to University Theater audiences in UT’s spring production of three one-act plays. The cast of the curtain-raiser, John M. Morton’s well-beloved

Box and Cox, includes Barry Sherman, familiar to UT audiences, who is also directing the second play, poet Edna Millay’s Aria da Capo; and Edward Simmons, well-known to Chicago radio, television, and theater audiences, who is directing The Shy and Lonely. Carol Horning, last seen as Pegeen in last quarter’s Playboy of the Western World, will be Box and

Cox’ bewildered landlady.

The adagio chorus will perform the opening number of the show “Sunrise,” and “Los Turistas,” a burlesque on tourists. The latter will feature Acrotheatre Director Bud Beyer and Louise Fechheimer as adagio soloists.

Two Mexican folk dances, an Afro-Cuban dance, and an interpretation of Flamenco dancing with Moe Hirsch as guitar soloist will be performed by members of the group.

The tumblers and trampolinists of the varsity gymnastics team will perform comedy acts.

Steven Polgar will perform an authentic American Indian dance.

Acrotheatre’s jugglers will be featured as merchants in a market place scene.

Tickets are available at the Student Service Center, the athletic office, and also at the Mandel Hall box office before each performance. They are $1 for students and $1.50 general admission. Reserved seats are $1.85.

'L'tfeure Espagnole' to be given Sunday

The first performance of “The Vision of Ariel,” an opera-ballet by Lazare Smainsky, and the first stage performance in Chicago of L’Heure Espagnole, a one-act opera by Maurice Ravel, will be presented Sunday in Mandel Hal L The program is sponsored by the International Society for Contemporary Music, and will be conducted by Erwin Jospe. The concert begins at 8:20 p.m., and tickets are $1.50.

CANOE TRIPS

Quetico-Superior Wilderness. Only $5.00 per man day for complete outfit, aluminum canoe and food. For free folder and map write: Bill Rom, CANOE COUNTRY OUTFITTERS, Box 717 C, Ely, Minnesota.

The production given Aria da Capo, Milady’s modern morality play, promises to be quite spectacular. The sky’s the limit in the matters of costumes, lighting and Cocteau-like properties. Seen in the cast will be Lawrence Zerkel, the Michael James of Playboy; Ann Jacobson, a newcomer to the stage; Hyme Bernson, a recent addition to UT; Katherine Allison, who last quarter played Widow Quin in Playboy; and Alan Nichols, the Lord Edgard of winter quarter’s Carnival of Thieves.

Winding up the program is the longest of the three one-acters, Irwin Shaw’s The Shy and Lonely. The cast includes four newcomers: Brina Bailin, Hyme Bernson, Henry Mueller, and Lucille De Vise'. The two central roles, however, will be played by Lee Wannerman, seen as Old Man Mahon in Playboy, and Martha Silverman, whose first CT appearance was as one of the village girls in Playboy.

UT’s departing director, Otis Imboden, is doing the farcical Box and Cox as his farewell offering. With three different styles of direction. three different casts, and three plays, completely dissimilar in style and in subject matter, the program offers a striking diversity of entertainment. Adding to the humor of Box and Cox, the ethereal quality of Aria da Capo, and the alternating comedy and tragedy of The Shy and Lonely, is the fact that they are to be staged “in the round.” offering opportunity for fresh, original theatrical effect.

Presentation dates are to be May 7, 8 and 9, and the following weekend, May 14, 15 and 16. Curtain time is 8:30 p.m. in the Reynolds Club studio theatre. Tickets for the production may be bought in the Student Service Center in the Reynolds Club basement, or by mail. Admission is $1.

in ALL A MATTER OF TASTE

with college^

H Barbara Bennett

^wrence College

When you come right down to it, you smoke for one simple reason ... enjoyment. And smoking enjoyment is all a matter of taste. Yes, taste is what counts in a cigarette. And Luckies taste better.

Two facts explain why Luckies taste better. First, L.S./M.F.T. —Lucky Strike means fine tobacco... light, mild, goodtasting tobacco. Second, Luckies are actually made better to taste better... always round, firm, fully packed to draw freely and smoke evenly.

So, for the enjoyment you get from better taste, and only from better taste, Be Happy —Go Lucky. Get a pack or a carton of better-tasting Luckies today.

W^dotk U^ '

-u^flnet^^

Ford R Maddick Kan.M University

that rea Hy tops

Celin

Vaernewyck

Poston

^Disc

1367 E. 57th St.

THE RECORD OF THE WEEK

Debussy —

15 Piano Pieces By Walter Gieseking Angel 35026, $5.95

COPR., THE AMERICAN TOBACCO COMPANY

:.v:¥Sz

COLLEGE SMOKERS 'PREFER LUCKIES

A comprehensive survey—based on 31,000 student interviews and supervised by college professors—shows that smokers in colleges from coast to coast prefer Luckies to all other brands.' The No. 1 reason: Luckies’ better taste!

LUCKIES TASTE BETTER

CLEANER, FRESHER, SMOOTHER I Page 9 April 30, 1954

THE CHICAGO MAROON

Audience suffers through Schoenberg

Wind quintets are not such unusual combinations as one might think; there is a quite respectable literature, and such groups are often forrrfed from groups of amateurs or professionals to play for their own

enjoyment.

I he New Art Wind Quintet, which performed in Mandel Hall last Friday, April 23, is apparently the only professional group of its kind nowadays. They play

with precision and some feeling, but in general are somewhat below the level of players in a fine symphony orchestra.

The program opened with a pleasant, rather Mozartian quintet by Danzi (1763-1826). It was well played, although the flute seemed very afraid of being heard, and

the fast movements were for the quick horn and passages.

After a quintet by

too fast bassoon

Arnold

Schoenberg, Opus 26, there followed a little quartet by Rossini, quite charming except for a slightly inane slow movement, and Trois Pieces Ereves by Ibert, the first of which had a remarkable fullness and brilliant color; the others were less interesting.

The only controversial work was the Schoenberg, completed and premiered in 1924; it is his first large work using his twelve-tone system. Such a piece, essentially, is based on a “tone-row,’’ comprising all twelve tones of the chromatic scale (all the white and black

keys on the piano within one octave) in a certain order. AH the melodic lines in the work are drawn from this row, forward, backward or upside down, no octaves permitted, and with many other manipulations stipulated by similar rules. The main purpose is to be atonal (without any central key) and thus far it is eminently successful.

However no one can possibly pick out all the variations and ramifications in a composition of this type by listening to it. Music, after all, is to be heard. Schoenberg himself, in “Style and Idea,” a book of musical essays, claims that “The principal function of form is to advance our understanding”; this is certainly not the case in the quintet. It at first has a certain general effect, somewhat like a bad dream or a pathological state of mind, but soon it becomes merely senseless, ugly, unmusical noise, totally void of any expression or feeling.

Of course we thus expose ourselves to Schoenberg’s own remark, in w h i c h he mentions “the decision of one successful young composer: ‘Today’s younger generation does not like music which they do not understand,’ does not conform to the feelings of heroes who engage in adventures.” Schoenberg may be a hero, but he is not a composer. Twelvetone music is indeed new and radical, but so is Schi Hinger's system of composing with charts and graphs, or Varese's percussion pieces, or Henry Cowell’s “tone clusters,” or a thousand other experiments and mechanizations in music and the other arts which have given rise to so many sects and “schools.”

But here also we have the central problem; perhaps this is music for the select few who understand it. This is, in fact, what Schoenberg and his followers claim. (To ask “Why inflict it on an audience then?” would be shameless impudence.) After asserting the dictum “Art for Art’s Sake,” Schoenberg laments the “popular demands for comprehensibility,” and finally states: “No artist, no poet, no philosopher and no musician whose thinking occurs in the highest sphere would degenerate into vulgarity in order to comply with a slogan such as “Art for All.” Because it is art, it is not for all, and if it is for all, it is not art.” Of course, to throw out Each and Beethoven, Schubert and Moussorgsky, we will accept without a murmur; but to be offered music like this in exchange, that is too much indeed.

The main fact that Schoenberg

See "Schoenberg," page 10

Eugene Troobnick, who ploys the lead in the Playwrights Theatre production of Satre's "Red Gloves," to open Moy 5.

Hayek dissertations

show shoddy analysis

"Capitalism and the Historians," F. A. Hayek, ed., U. of Chicago Press 1954. $3.00.

“It is the legend of the deterioration of the position of the working classes in consequence of the rise of ‘capitalism/ ” which the editor, Professor F. A. Hayek of the University of Chicago, has selected as the target for the five essays collected in Capitalism and the Historians. Three of the essays were papers delivered at a meeting of laissez faire economists and

HISTORY

A CAMPUS-TO-CAREER CASE

Dick Wallner, ’52, left a trail of work as he whirled through a year of telephone training. Here he recalls the variety of his training jobs.

(Reading time: 36 seconds)

historians at Beauvalon, France, in 1951. However, these papers deal not so much with the historical question of the decline of living standards of the working class during the rise of capitalism, but with the attitude taken towards capitalism by historians in England, the U. S., and the Continent. They are written by T. S. Ashton. L. M. Hacker, and Bertrand de Jouvenel. The other two essays are monographs on the living standards in England of the early nineteenth century, by Ashton and W. H. Hutt. The editor has introduced the book with an essay on history and politics.

Hayek sets up the line of argumentation by claiming that, either from political bias or humanitar। i^n zeal, historians have distorted i the efforts of capitalism and have forgotten “what we owe to a system which for the first time in history made people feel that misery might be avoidable.” But bias of the essayists in this volume is made clearer than the biases of those whom they attack, for they make clear that anyone who does not believe in capitalism a la Adam Smith is a 20th century machine wrecker and is vaguely connected with socialism.

Hayek and Hutt attack those who do not think that the rise of capitalism was a bed of roses by saying that productivity was increased by the mechanization of industry that characterizes capitalism. Therefore, they falsely reason that those who do not like

the working-class slums and child labor do not like industrialization. They try to cap off this brilliant bit of logic by setting up as a straw-horse some nineteenth century romantists who idealized the middle-ages. However, most critics of capitalism, Marxist and non Marxist, recognize that capitalism was a progressive step in the development of society.

Perhaps the most ludicrous assertions are made by Dean Hacker in his article on the “Anti-Capitalist Bias of American Historians.” He is worried that “the case for capitalism lacks impressive defenders.” Hacker tries to insinuate that, therefore, capitalism lacks defenders in American Universities. He does this by saying that anyone who does not support the interests of the biggest section of capital at any period of U. S. history is anti-capitalist. Therefore the pro-Jeffersonians, pro-Jaeksonians, the pro-slavery, pro Populists, and pro-New Deal historians are all in one class, anticapitalists. This is both shoddy social analysis and shoddy logic. Worse than this he falsities the situation in American Universities, for the Hacker-Nevins school of historiography is the dominant and “safe” approach to U. S. history.

De Jouvenel spends most of his time bemoaning the French Revolution and tire fact that lay intel lectuals arc not part of the ruling class as were the medieval clericintellectual. Ashton is a charming liberal who should have lived in

1854.

Harold Baron

“Training can really be interesting. I found that out when I joined A.T.&T.’s Long Lines Department after getting my B.A. at Cincinnati and my M.A. at Michigan in ’52. Long Lines is the organization specializing in Long Distance communications. I was put in the training program, and there wasn’t a dull minute.

“For instance, one of my jobs in the Traffic Department was estimating the exact number of calls that would be placed in a city on Christmas Day. My estimate was off by only 68 calls!

1 “Then in the Plant Department, I made a study of damage done to a certain cable. Found out that the most damage occurred in an area used by hunters. Some special public relations work among hunters helped improve that situation. _

“And in the Commercial Department, I helped analyze the communication problems of one of the largest textile companies—it had widespread offices and plants. The recommendations made are now in use. ^BW^*i-“The variety in my training has carried over to my regular job here in Cincinnati. My job is to see that good service is maintained for private line customers — pipeline and power companies, theater TV and the like. Every day is different

“As far as I am concerned, I’ve found my career.’*

Like so many college people who have joined the Bell System, Dick has a job he enjoys. There are also job opportunities with other Bell Telephone Companies, the Bell Telephone Laboratories, Western Electric and Sandia Corporation. This is a porn! time to see your Placement Officer for full details.

BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM

CLOAKS, DAGGERS AND GETAWAYS!

FRIEND OR FOE? by Pinto 

How in Englond sifted refugees to determine ollegiencet. Harder than sorting sheep from gcats ond more dromotic. Seven fascinating coses, in the same vivid form that made success of SPYCATCHER.

THE MAN WHO NEVER WAS by Montagu $ 2.75

British ingenuity misleads the Germans about the invasion from North Africa — a true tale worthy of Eric Ambler!

MEN OF COLDITZ by 

Escope attempts from the Officers' Camp at Colditz. Outrageously ond surprisingly funny at times.

THE BOOK OF FAMOUS ESCAPES by Williams.$4.95

A chronicle of escape in many years wilh eighteen firsthand accounts from 1597 to 1945. By the author of THE WOODEN HORSE.

THE SCARLET THREAD by 

Highly exciting adventures in wartime espionage ond very sharp criticism of the American and British Intelligence by a mon who worked for both countries during World War II.

University of Chicago

Bookstore

5802 Ellis Avenue April 30, 1954

UC scientists report research

UC personnel have played a leading role in reporting new discoveries to two nationwide meetings of scientists this past week. These discoveries were announced at the Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology in Atlantic City, N. J., last Friday and at the meetings of the National Academy of Sciences in Washington, D.C., Wednesday.

Meinel studies

Northern Lights

Studies of the Northern Lights offer a useful tool to unlocking the mystery of the chemical composition of the air fifty to several hundred miles above the earth, Aden B. Meinel, associate professor of astronomy at the University's Yerkes Observatory, said in describing techniques by which the various atoms found in "the Aurora Borealis can be identified.

Such information about the upper air collected by auroral studies would be valuable in this age of guided missile and rocket flight, he told the National Academy. Meinel and his associates have been studying 20 to 25 occurrences a year of the Northern Lights in two University observing stations at Williams Bay, Wisconsin and at

Munising, Michigan.

Weiss describes abnormal growth

Brief exposure to excess

vitamin A can make living cells drastically alter their growth pattern, Paul Weiss, professor of zoology, said reporting on experiments done jointly with Ruth James, a

research assistant. He said the growth pattern of cells in chicken skin was completely altered through brief exposure to the vitamin.

The experiments indicate that something in the vitamin caused a prolonged “switch" in the normal chemical activity of growth and made the cells develop in a different way than they normally would. The research, conducted on funds from the American Cancer Society, contributes to understanding of the unorganized "wild” cell growth which is characteristic of

cancer.

Cannon discusses protein injections

New light on the way

intravenous injection of proteins is used in the body was reported by Dr. Paul R. Cannon, professor and chairman of the department of pathology, discussing studies

Paul Weiss, professor of zoology

made by him, Laurence E. Frazier, asisstant, and Randolph H. Hughes, technician.

In Dr. Cannon’s experiments, rats were deprived of essential proteins. Then their bodies were built up with injections of 16

amino acids. Tinder these conditions the rats gained weight and thrived.

When they were deprived of one essential amino acid, they quickly lost weight. Replacing an essential amino acid with a peptide (groups of amino acids in larger chemical structures) containing the essential amino acid restored the weight lost.

Previously it was not known whether body cells could use peptides when they were given by injection, but these results indicate that the body can make use of some peptides as well as amino acids when they are injected beneath the skin.

Viruses found destroying cells

Viruses that attack bacteria are able to break down the cell walls of susceptible bacteria into very small particles, Leonard Barrington, student biochemist, and Lloyd Kozloff, assistant professor of biochemistry, told the biology conference at Atlantic City.

When viruses break down the cell walls, they themselves are destroyed. These findings are important in establishing clues to

Your Wings are

the way viruses — which cause polio, influenza and other diseases — are able to infect the cells of their hosts. The studies were supported by the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis.

Evans discusses

Some viruses obtain only a third of one vital chemical in their body from the living things they attack; the other two-thirds come from the medium outside the attacked cells, Earl A. Evans, Jr., professor and chairman of the department of biochemistry, Ray Koppelman and R. P. Mackal, reported to the biology conference.

When bacteria are treated with ultra-violet light, the viruses may be activated and destroy the host bacteria. The experimenters found a means of isolating the viruses, activated by ultra-violet light’ after they had destroyed the bacteria.

Analysis of the phosphorus compounds in the viruses showed that the viruses took one-third of the phosphorus in their bodies from the bacteria, the other twothirds from the medium in which they grew.

Schoenberg...

(from page 9)

denies, and he does so explicitly, is that all music has its basis in folk music. For, after all, originally there was nothing else, and even one who lias heard nothing but the classics is influenced by it ultimately. If this influence is trivial and irrelevant, then music must be devoid of all expression, and becomes a mere intellectual exercise; Schoenberg in fact as much as says this.

But he forgets that the best music that exists does express something, and is good in proportion to the significance of its ideas and how well it expresses them; and these ideas are not musical problems, but reflect the individual and society. To call music an intellectual exercise is to make it completely trivial.

During the performance of tiiis quintet Friday night, sixteen people walked out. The New Art Wind Quintet is fortunate; in 1921 an audience might have, and perhaps did, throw chairs and begin fistfights. Truly we live in an age of tolerance.

your Passport

1

STUDENT TOUR TO MEXICO 21 Days Aug, 15 - Sept. 4 Vitis Monterrey, Taxco, Cuernavaca, Acapulco, Fortin, Capital, etc. First class hotels; travel via train, private cars, bus and plane. Experienced director.

DR. JOSE SANCHEZ University of Illinois Navy Pier, Chicago

x&g&g OPPORTUNITY

For Unique Experience in Human Relations

A limited number of positions as Psychiatric Aides are available to college graduates at one of America's foremost psychiatric clinichospitals. If you are interested in psychiatry, psychology, personnel work, teaching, or social work, this is a valuable opportunity for practical on-the-job experience in the basic areas of human relations. You will also enjoy the benefits of living in a stimulating atmosphere with congenial people. You will have complete room, board, recreational and social facilities plus a cash salary. For further information, write to: Barbara St. John, Director of Personnel, The Institute of Living, 160 Retreat Ave., Hartford, Conn.

wherever

Your Air Force wings are your personal passport to universal respect and admiration. They’re a sign—recognized everywhere— that mark you as one of America’s finest.

To wear them, you must win them ... as an Aviation Cadet. They come with the gold bars of

UNITED STATES AIR FORCE

you go...

an Air Force Lieutenant and earnings of over $5,000 a year! They come complete with the admiration of a grateful Nation.

If you’re single, between 19 and 26>2, prepare to win this passport to success. Join the Aviation Cadets! For further information, fill out this coupon today.

AVIATION CADET, AFPTRHeadquarfers, U.S.A.F.

Washington 25, D.C.

CNl

Please send me information on my opportunities as an Air Force Pilot.

Nams

Addrest • •♦••••••••••••••••

City • Sports 

De Pauw netmen triumph as UC'ers take first fall

De Pauw racketeers went on a rampage Saturday, smashing the Maroon varsity, 8-1. The De Pauw Tigers, playing on their home court in Greencastle, Indiana, swept the singles matches without dropping a set. Only doubles victory was won by the doubles team of Bob Fox and Myron Howland, 0-6, 6-2, 6-3.

The defeat broke a twelve meet string of triumphs compiled both last year and the beginning of this season, when the Maroons dropped only four out of 35 matches.

Coach Bill Moyle hopes to send the team back on the victory road Wednesday in one of the season’s biggest and toughest events—the battle in South Bend, Indiana, against Notre Dame.

Golfers drop 2 contests last week

The fairway hikers faced defeat twice within three days last week, losing to St. Joseph’s College, 9^-5%, on the Cog Hill course Thursday and to Valparaiso on the Beechwood course in La Porte, Indiana, Saturday, 23%-3%. Walt Bison and Bob Kelso turned in the best scores for the Maroon golfers each day, Bison shooting 79 and 76, Kelso 80 and 78.

The JV golfers fared better than their seniors, defeating Hyde Park High School on the Jackson Park course, 6%-5%.

Sailors to race against 6 teams

Six midwestern sailing teams will gather at Columbia Yacht Club this weekend for the Spring Elimination Regatta. Wisconsin, Washington, Northwestern, Illinois Tech, Marquette, Minnesota and Chicago will compete for two berths in the Midwest Championships two weeks later.

Following completion of most of the fourteen races, Sailing Club members and visiting yachtsmen will attend a party Saturday night at the Phi Gamma Delta house.

Intramural volleyball battle on tap

Phi Sigma Delta, Mathews and Beecher will fight it out for the intramural volleyball championship. Although Mathews and Beecher were clear victors in the respective divisions—dormitory and divisional—the fraternity championship was not decided until Tuesday when Phi Sigma Delta and Psi Upsilon paired-off against each other in the playoff. Each entered the contest with a 15-3 record.

Police invade UC, found all wet

For those who wonder why seven State Police automobiles were parked outside Bartlett Gym Wednesday, the MAROON reports that Governor Stratton’s motorcycle brigade was not invading Sheriff Babb’s territory. The cops went swimming.

Sports events this week

Today—The JV netmen face Luther South on the Varsity Courts at 3:30 p.m. Tomorrow—the baseball team takes on Washington University in a double-header at Stagg Field at 1 p.m. Tuesday—The JV trackmen meet Elgin, North Park and Wheaton in Stagg Field at 3:30 p.m. Wednesday—The basebailers face Navy Pier at 3:30 p.m. in Stagg Field. Thursday—The Maroon nine meets Lake Forest at 3:30 p.m. in Stagg Field.

Tarr's two-hitter humbles

Lake Forest nine, 7-2

Dave Utley ... * was laid up early this week with a virus infection, but now the Maroon captain and star firstbasemen is ready to go. He is shown here getting a pre-game tip from Coach Kyle Anderson (left).

JV trackmen

lose 1st meet

The junior edition of the “run-for-fun” segment of campus — the JV trackmen — dropped their first meet of the year at Chicago Heights, 60-58, Friday.

Lynn Small led Maroon scorers with 13% points as the JV trackmen found the cinder-track a bit drier than it was last Wednesday when they stomped through mud and water to gain a victory in a triangular meet. Jim Brown scored a double victory, winning both the 100 and 400 yard dashes.

On Tuesday the junior Maroons face Elgin, North Park and Wheaton High Schools in a quadrangular meet at 3 p.m. in Stagg Field.

by Leonard Freidman

To most students this week baseball was just a sideshow along side the greatest sideshow of them all, but Buzz Tarr’s pitching against Lake Forest Wednesday was a feature act that even the Mc Carthy-Stevens feud could not overshadow.

Tarr gave up only two hits as the Maroon nine pummelled Lake Forest, 7-2, in what Bruce Colby called, “The best game we’ve played all year.”

While Tarr was holding the opposition to two feeble hits, Maroon baseballers clobbered Lake Forest pitchers all over

the lot. The biggest blow of th lected was Gil Levine’s bases loaded single which gave the Maroons a definite edge in the

Wendell Marumoto collected three hits to lead Maroon batsmen for the day. Everyone on the team slammed one of the four Lake Forest pitchers for at least one hit. Coach Kyle Anderson, experimenting with a revamped infield as he had done the previous game, is especially proud of the errorless fielding of the Maroons and credits Bob Mann and Gil Levine with making especially fine fielding plays, game.

Saturday 10 glaring errors added an 11-7 loss to the Chicago score book. Illinois Tech, in collecting the win, handed the Maroons their second straight defeat and fifth loss in six complete games this season. All Maroon mastery was lacking during the game as Illinois Tech transformed Stagg Field into a slaughterhouse.

Coach Kyle Anderson found himself playing a patched - up squad, for Captain Dave Utley and veteran third-sacker Bruce Colby were sidelined with assorted ailments. Substituting John Broyles at first and newcomer Robin Powell at third, Anderson wound up with a Maroon infield which through lack of experience committed eight of the 10 errors.

Chicago collected 11 hits to IIT’s eight. The Chicago attack was led by Wendell Marumoto’s three consecutive hits and by pairs of singles from the bats of George Grey and Bob Mann.. Both Marumoto and Mann lifted their averages over the .400 mark by their solid

e 14 hits Chicago players colhitting.

Jerry Bohman started for the Maroons and struck out four of the first six opposing batters. Bohman also helped his own cause in the game with a long triple. Relieving Bohman in the fifth, Anderson sent Buzz Tarr to the mound. Both pitchers turned in credible performances for the day.

The Maroons scored in uprisings in the third, fourth and sixth innings. A base on balls to Grey and a hit by Marumoto placed runners on the bases. Successive hits by Broyles and Bohman brought in the first two runners.

Levine opened the next inning with a single. After a walk to Bohman, George Grey doubled in the runners. Marumoto then drove in Grey with the second of his three hits.

The last runs were scored on a triple by Bohman, a ground base hit by Grey and a hit by Marumoto. Chicago trailed by four runs and had a last inning rally going when a line drive bid for a base hit by Marumoto was turned into a double play by the opposing third sacker. The third baseman was as surprised as the Maroon runner who was rounding second when the baseman realized he had the ball. The Maroon runner continued his run to the showers as the third baseman threw to first and ended the ball game.

RHE

IIT 003 420 020 11 8 1

Maroons 002 302 000 7 11 10

R HE

Maroons 000 111 220—7 14 0 Lake Forest 000 002 000—2 2 2

How the

stars

got started

lead in history!

than any other, cigarette !

Red Barber says: ‘T was a student working my way through the University of Florida when I was asked to be substitute announcer on a farm program. That got me a job. In two years, I became chief announcer. My break in sports came in '34 when I broadcast Cincinnati Reds games. Been doing Major League play-by-play ever since!”

^ Mildness ^ flavor

FOR MILDNESS AND

FLAVOR THAT

AGREE with me BEST. YOU TRY

CAMELS, Y'HEAR ?

IT CAMELS LEAD

in sales by record

Newest nationwide figures* from the leading industry analyst, Harry M. Wootton, show Camels now 50 8/10% ahead of the secondplace brand — biggest preference

. • • •Published in Printers’ Ink, 1954

Qameis agree with more people 

SRP Victory Party return It to Tom O’Connor. BU 8-9856. He has yours.

For Sale

Friday, April 30

Finals in Florence James Adams Poetry Reading Contest will be held in Breasted Hall, 3:30 p.m. The contest is sponsored by the department of English. Public invited.

Humboldt Club will hold a meeting at Wieboldt 408, 4 p.m. The meeting will feature Zwei Deutsche Kunstfllme.

French Club Meeting will be held at Ida Noyes Library, 4 p.m. The main event will be a musical quiz.

Snell-Hitchcock is sponsoring a picnic

James R Lawson, Carilloneur, will give a carillon recital at Rockefeller Chapel,, 4:30 p.m.

Italian Club Meeting will feature a talk by Professor Tullio Tentori, who will speak on “Italian Cities.” 7:30 p.m. at Room A, Int. House.

Thursday, May 6

Graduate History Club will have an in Personal

Admiral TV 21” table model: aerial, table; one year old; $125 or best offer. 858 E. 59th Street.

1940 Nash, completely overhauled, an new tires, extremely low mileage, absolutely sound, clean. Spent seven hundred dollars on repairs. Must sell. Call NO 7-2172.

Those wishing summer language course, either H-l or part of four-quarter course call J. Dulin, B-J.

Mattress, box spring, almost new; type, extra firm. Will deliver, call HY 3-7827.

1953 Mercury Monterey hard top convertible, bittersweet and Tahitian tan fully equipped. Call mornings or evenings after 6 p.m. HY 3-0772 or PR 6-8317.

For Rent

Boxer pups - champion sire. Blue ribbon dam. Outstanding quality, paper trained. 5701 Maryland.

Services

t the “point”—the foot of 55th Street. Activities will include square and social dancing, games, and eating. Tickets cost 50 cents. 4 p.m.

“The Whole Town is Talking*’ is the title of the Doc Film to be shown at Social Sciences 122, at 7:15 and 9:30 p.m. Admission is 50 cents.

Hillel Foundation Sabbath Service at 7:45 p.m., 5715 Woodlawn Avenue.

*Acrodeo,” sponsored by Acrotheatre, will be presented at 8:30 p.m. at Mandel Hall. Tickets are $1 for students, $1.50 for non-students, and $1.85 for reserved section.

Beta Open House—Stark's Party is the “mass retreat from the tedium of reality” offered by Beta Theta Pl. 5737 University Ave., 8:30 p.m.

Saturday, May 1

"Acrodeo” will be given at Mandel Hall. 8:30 p.m. Tickets are $1 students. $1.50 non-students and $1.85 reserved.

Sunday, May 2

University Religious Service will take place 11 a.m. at Rockefeller Memorial Chapel. Reverend John B. Thompson, dean of the chapel, will deliver a sermon on “No Sign Shall Be Given.”

Matinee Performance of “Acrodeo,” sponsored by Acrotheatre, will be held 3:30 p.m. at Mandel Hall.

Carillon Recital will be given by James R. Lawson, carilloneur, at Rockefeller Chapel, 4 p.m.

Porter Foundation will sponsor a discussion, “Christians in the Struggle for World Peace,” 7:30 p.m. in Int. House, Room A. Clive Grey and Ilse Nelson will speak.

Hillel Open House will begin at 7:30 p.m. at Hillel Foundation, 5715 Woodlawn Avenue. The party, which Is an annual event, will feature games, dancing, and refreshments. Admision free.

Monday, May 3

Hug Ivrl will present Morris Altman, professor of the College of Jewish Studies, who will discuss a recent Israeli book. Hillel Foundation, 5715 Woodlawn, 12:30 p.m.

An American Film in Yiddish, “The Cantor’s Son.” will be shown at International House Assembly Hall, 8 p.m. Admission is 35 cents.

Hillel Foundation will present the second of a series of seminars led by Benno Tandsberger, Professor of Assyriology at the Oriental Institute. Hillel Library. 8:30 p.m.

Delmore Schwartz will read and discuss his poems at Soc. Scl. 122, 4 p.m. He is sponsored by the humanities 3 college course. Open to public.

Tuesday, May 4

In ter-Varsity Christian Fellowship will hold its weekly speaker-luncheon at Ida Noyes, third floor, from 12:30 to

formal lecture and tea at Ida Noyes east lounge, 3 p.m. Kermit Eby, Professor of Industrial Relations, will speak on “The Futility of Historical Research,” especially in regard to labor and industrial history. Visitors are welcome.

Kitchenette, clean, quiet. Ideal for one or two. 6055 South Dorchester. MI 3-9372.

1:20 p.m. The main talk entitled “The Death of Christ.” Politics Club Meeting

event will be a Meaning of the

will have a discussion on “Recession? Rolling Readjustment or Return to Normalcy?” Ida Noyes, 8 p.m.

Wednesday, May 5

Pre-Med Club will sponsor a speech by Dr. Louis Plzak. on “Twenty-five Years of Medical Practice.” It will be given at Abbott 420, 3:30 p.m.

Maroon

(from page 7) fore that a sizable majority of MAROON readers are to a large degree satisfied with MAROON reporting of athletic activities and events at the University.

MAROON not too bad

Taken in it& totality the data assembled in this study does not describe a perfect newspaper, broad and objective in all its undertakings, responsive to all the interests and activities of the student body. There are short-comings. Certain important areas of student activities are almost unheard of in the paper. But these areas are very few and in the great majority of cases the interests, activities and attitudes held by the UC students are given space in the pages of the MAROON. If a good deal of space is devoted to items of a political nature there is a quantity of evidence that this is appreciated* by a student body which is wide awake to political realities and which shows a broad and healthy interest in political affairs.

A very significant indicator of MAROON responsiveness is the unanimity with which the student body expressed their general satisfaction with their campus press. It is true that charges of bias have been leveled by a strong minority of readers. And to a certain extent these charges are borne out. Bias in the MAROON however results more from omission rather than commission. But evidence has also been brought forth that the student body is aware of the MAROON, its policies and its short-comings. It is this mutual sensitivity between the MAROON and its public that will act to correct abuses and keep the MAROON a dynamic and responsive student newspaper,

“Religion and the Rise of Capitalism” is the subject of a lecture sponsored by Calvert Club. The speaker will be Earl Hamilton, Professor of economic history. 8 pm. De Sales House.

“The Snake Pit.” an American film, will be shown at International House assembly hall, 8 p.m. Admission Is 35 cents.

Classified Three-and-one-half room furnished apartment. $95 monthly. MI 3-4269.

Solid walnut executive desk, 40' by 73”; Hamilton upright piano, king size bed, modern colorful framed prints, portable barbecue, fifteen cubic feet deep freezer, kitchen table, chairs, beds, chests, Frigidaire. OA 4-4545.

Creative portraiture. All other skilled photography. High quality low cost quick service. Joe Wolf, ES 5-1615.

Dressmaking, alterations, reasonable Phone mornings or evenings. FA 4-7646*

Lost

Will person taking wrong raincoat at

Nice basement room with private bath. Convenient location. $7 weekly. Call DO 3-3710.

Beautiful large room, twin beds, Ideal for two girls. Kitchen privileges if desired. Euclid and 71st Street. Transportation, IC and bus. Private home. Call MU 4-4229.

Faculty member apartment available Tor summer. Six rooms, two baths, block from campus. Rent reasonale. Call HY 3-3087.

Khatchaturyan Article on Soviet Music: Eurenburg article on Soviet literature, in “Masses and Mainstream” 35 cents each. “Pragmatism, Philosophy of Imperialism” by Harry Wells. A Critique of James, Dewey, and Pierce in philosophy, psychology, and education; Fiske in history; and Holmes In law, $1.50. Contemporary reader containing script of “Sholom Alechlem.” Other Marxist and progressive publications. Mall orders to MAROON Box 138.

Mathematics, special instruction to fit your mathematical needs. Individual or group sessions’. Albert Sog Un, ST 2-6727

Wanted

American Bike, excellent condition, $25. Call DO 3-3710.

Two or three room furnished apartment for the summer months. Call HY 3-4366.

Tutoring in English in exchange for fee. Call 6-7 p.m., —U 8-0239.

UP GO SALES. DOM

COMES PRICE OF L*M

a

You Save Up to 4^ a Pack— 40^ a Carton!

FROM UM TO YOU-JUST WHAT THE DOCTOR ORDERED

1. THE MIRACLE TIP... for most effective filtration. Selects and removes the heavy particles, leaving you a Light and Mild smoke.

2. PUREST AND BEST filter made. Exclusive with L&M. Result of 3 years of scientific research 3 years rejecting other filters. This

is it!

W^c'*’-- ^-'

3. MUCH MORE FLAVOR ...MUCH LESS NICOTINE L&M Filters are the first filter cigarette to taste the way a cigarette should. The premium quality tobaccos

and the miracle filter

work together... to give you plenty of good taste.

Now Every Smoker can afford UM. America's highest quality Filter Cigarette

Since L&M Filters were put on sale Across the country they have gained a nation-wide demand never before equalled by any other cigarette in so Short a time.

So naturally... down goes the price to you of La Ms — America’s highest

quality and best filter tip cigarette.

Thousands of dealers in America’s largest cities (New York, Boston, Philadelphia, Chicago and Los Angeles) in signed statements report L&Ms their largest selling filter tip cigarette.

Why have L&M Filters rolled up

Exclusive um miracle filter tip contains Alpha Cellulose .. tor most enective filtration.Much more flavor ... much less nicotine.

THE DISTINCTIVE

MONOGRAM CIGARETTE L^W k M^ y

sales records like this? For the first time filter tip smokers are getting what they want... much more flavor and aroma .,. with much less nicotine. After the first few puffs from an L&M, most smokers sum it up this way,

“THIS IS IT-JUST WHAT

THE DOCTOR ORDERED.*

^-AMERICA’S HIGHEST QUALITY AND BEST FILTER TIP CIGARETTE.