University of Chicago, October 8, 1954

150 Burton*Judson Residents

Stricken by Food Poisoning

Photo by Tipton

Photo by Tipton

by John Connelly

An estimated 150 residents of Burton-Judson courts were stricken late Thursday night and Friday, September 30 and October 1, with a form of food poisoning resulting from causes as yet unknown. Twenty men were treated at the student health service clinic and three were kept overnight for observation. However, none were reported in serious con B-J dining room

UC Fraternities Plan Smokers

dition.

Dr. William Lester, of student health, and Sarah Kishimoto, dietitian at B-J, both felt that the link sausage served at the noon meal Thursday was the cause. A series of culture tests were run on remnants of everything served that day except the sausage, which was completely consumed.

“No Negligence”

Dr,. Lester, stating that the “cause was not clearly established." added, “We have looked into the matter and are convinced that there was no negligence on the (kitchen* staff's part.”

Miss Kishimoto, expressing a deep concern over the affair, stated that she had personally handled the preparation of the sausage from the frozen food locker to

the serving tables due to the absence of one of the cooks, and has been assured by the supplier, Mickelberry company, that the meat was fresh. She added, “I feel very badly about the whole thing and am grateful for the attitude of the boys in this matter.”

“Will Look”

Arthur Kiendl, director of housing, said that in his experience, “the food here is far above average for institution cooking. While we don’t as yet know the exact cause

The kitchen in Burton-Judson, where the food was prepared that poisoned over one hundred residents.

Autumn “meet - the - boys - lookaround” smokers are planned for Monday through Friday announced the ten fraternity chapters represented in the Inter-fraternity council.

Lasting from 7:45 to 10:30 p.m., the parties are scheduled as follows: • .

Monday.Zeta Beta Tau, Alpha Delta Phi Tues Bay Phi Sigma Delta,Phi Kappa Psi Wednesday. Beta Theta Pi, Phi Gamma

Delta

Thursday. Kappa Alpha Psi, Psi Upsilon Friday. .Delta Upsilon, Phi Delta Theta

Everyone interested in becoming better acquainted with the various houses is invited to attend. The IFC recommends that “any' one planning to join a house should visit at least three fraternities before joining one.” Neither visiting nor pledging to any house obligates one to join it.

Arthur Kiendl, director of housing, who said that the B-J food is above average for institution cooking.

Photo by Janger

Boy and Cows Both Aid Store

A “city boy” wil turn farm hand for one week only because of a department store’s birthday.

As part of its 100th anniversary celebration, Carson Pirie and company is displaying live cattle in its loop store during National Dairy week and Tom Kapantais, UC student, has applied for and received a one-week job as a

of the sickness, we’ll continue to look for it.”

A'.general consensus at BJ showed that most of the boys felt that the food was more than adequate and some even thought that too much was being served, especially at morning meals.

Tell Symptoms

The symptoms of the plague ran as follows: early morning nausea continuing through the

Vaughan-Williams to lecture at Mandel

stable hand

for these cattle.

Six prize cattle and six prize

Center for

day and a highly sensitive ach, which lasted in some until Saturday.

Bill Kisken, one of the

stomcases

three

kept overnight at Billings reported that he first felt sick at about 1 a.m. Friday morning and went to Billings hospital an hour later. There he was given a sedative and remained in bed until 1 p.m. on Saturday. Kisken stated, “They took very good^care of me and I got the best of treatment.” More far reaching effects of the blitz were noticed in a soc sci section where the results of a test were discounted because the class

Ralph Vaughan-Williams will deliver the 191st Moody lecture Thursday night at 8:30 in Mandel Hall. Vaughan-Williams, one of the most important composers of the twentieth century and the dean and leader of contemporary British composers, is currently a visiting professor at Cornell University.

The subject of his lecture is “The background of music.” Admission is without ticket and without charge.

This is Vaughan - Williams’ first appearance on campus. Stravinsky, Hindemith, and Schoenberg have appeared here previously.

average was abnormally low due to the sickness, and in a physics class where a test was discounted due to low attendance.

Teacher Education

To Augment Teacher-Training

by Jack Burbach

Set Deadline

Only one week remains in which to apply for Fulbright scholarships for the academic year 195556. Undergraduate and graduate students interested in these scholarships for study in countries of western Europe the middle east, and Asia should apply to William Birenbaum in the office of student activities by next Friday.

calves belonging to the Curtiss Candy company’s farms will be on display at the store and Tom, who comes from Chicago’s next door neighbor, Hammond, Indiana, will have the job of running milking machines, feeding the cattle, and wielding a shovel.

When asked if he had ever been a stable hand before, Tom replied that his experience was limited to having seen cows once or twice but that he thought he would “make out all right” on the job.

Through the establishment of a center for teacher education, the University is inaugurating a series of steps designed to enable it to make a larger contribution to the preparation of teachers in the secondary and elementary schools.

The center will assume the responsibility of coordinating all of the programs and activities related to the preparation of teachers.

The center will perform many of the functions carried on by schools of education at other universities, but it will operate in such a way as to make the preparation of teachers for

Enrollment Figures Up

Enrollment in the college shows an increase of 13.6 per cent over that of last fall, according to latest available figures. The present number of college students is 1,283 as compared with 1,129 in October of 1953.

“Of the entering college students,” commented Dean Davey, “106 out of 428 were not high school graduates, and 60 to 70 of them had attended other colleges.”

The old plan is being used by 505 of those in the colfege; 778 college students are registered in some phase of the new’ plan. Of thse, 219 are working for a college AB, either in general studies (with a year of tutorial work) or in social science, business, pre-Iaw, or the graduate library school.

In addition 409 are entering into joint programs of collegehumanities leading to a BA, or of college- biological sciences or college-physical sciences leading to a BS.

The remaining 67 new college students are early entrants or students-at-Iarge.

The total quadrangle enrollment is 4,509, which shows an increase of 16 persons over last fall's figure. This represents a rise of approximately 0.4 per cent.

Total figures for the University are as yet incomplete because there is still a week of registration remaining in the downtown business school, according to the registrar’s office.

the elementary and secondary schools a function of the entire University.

Tell Purpose

The center will serve as a channel of communication to keep the entire University aware of the conditions prevailing in elementary and secondary education. It will act to stimulate interest in teacher preparation in the college and the divisions of the University, and will provide channels through which such efforts can be effectively expressed. The center will also assist the department of education in improving its programs for professional operation.

Determine Needs

According to Francis S. Chase, chairman of the department of education, the center hopes to work much more closely with the personnel of the elementary and secondary schools, to determine with their aid the needs of teacher education, and to bring to the campus professional personnel who will supplement our teacher preparation program by the particular skills and knowledge which they possess in their fields of specialization.

The staff of the center will consist of the faculty members in the department of education and a considerable number of faculty members from the college and all the graduate departments in the divisions, under the general directions of the chairman of the department of education and the council on teacher education.

To Use Research

The center will make full use of the knowledge regarding the learning process, child development, and social behavior that are represented in the various social science departments, Chase said. It will also tap the special knowledge and insight gained by the biological and physical sciences, and will make use of the standards of value developed by the humanities, he added.

The preparation of teachers for the elementary and secondary schools will thus become a responsibility and function of the entire University, Chase said.

Kimpton Back on Campus To Hold Reception Today

The Chancellor’s reception for old and new students will take place tonight in Ida Noyes hall from 8:30 to 9 p.m. Following the official reception there will be dancing in the Cloister club until midnight.

Lawrence A. Kimpton, chancellor of the University, will make his first on-campus public appearance of the academic year at this alluniversity function. He and Mrs. Kimpton have just returned from a two month trip to Europe.

Other honored guests in the receiving line will be Robert Streeter, dean of the college, and Mrs. Streeter; Benjamin Harrison, vice-president of the University, and Mrs. Harrison; Robert M. Strozier, dean of students, and Mrs. Strozier; Helen Wright, dean of the school of social service administration, and Napier Wilt, dean of the humanities division. .

Refreshments will be served by the resident heads of the women's dormitories during the reception.

 Page 2

THE CHICAGO MAROON

October 8, 1954

Calendar of Events

Friday, October 8

Informol tea, sponsored by Student Activities Office end Miss Margaret Fechheimer, representative of Mademoiselle's college board contest. Ida Noyes, 4:30 pm.

Chicago Review, meeting for new members, Elmer Borklund speaking On the importance of student manuscripts for the Review and the methods of solicitir^ them. Reynolds club, third floor office, 5:15 p.m.

Sobboth services fireside discussion, B'nai Brith Foundation, 5715 Woodlawn Avenue. Services at 7 :45 p.m., followed by fireside discussion.

Saturday, October 9

Tour by bus of Chicogo, visiting scenic and socially interest g areas of the city, sponsored by Student Government. Leave Reynolds club at 10:30 a m., return abo ’ 3 p.m. Tickets 50 cents, available at Student Service Center, basement of Reynolds club.

"An Evening with Ken Nordine", dramatic reading, featuring Dick Marx at the piano and sponsored by University Theatre. Mandel Hall, 8:30 p m. Admission 75 cents.

Sunday, October 10

University religious service, Rockefeller Chapel, 1 1 a m. The Reverend Joseph Sittier, professor of systemic theology, Lutheran Theological Seminary.

Open house at Kelly hall, everyone invited for refreshments, tour of the house, 2-6 p.m.

Carillon recital, Rockefeller chapel, 4 p.m. James R. Lawson, chapel carillonneur.

Giraudoux's The Enchanted, open *o all students, continuing through Tuesday and Wednesday. Reynolds club theatre, 7 p.m.

Motion picture: Pygmalion (British), International House, 8 p.m. Admission 45 cents.

Lecture: Charles Fairman, professor of law, Washington U . ersity, St. Louis, "Justice Joseph P. Bradley." Law south, 8:30 p.m.

Smokers, ZBT house, 5749 Woodlawn, 7:45 p.m. Alpha Delt house, 5747 University, 7:45 p m.

Tuesday, October 12

Mountaineering club met 9 for organization and planning Ida Noses alumni room, 7:30 p.m.

Motion picture: Incorrigible (Swedish) Social Science 122, 7:15 and 9:30 p.m. Admission 40 cents.

Young Socialist League lecture and discussion, "The role or a Socialist in the trade unions." Ida Noyes, 8 p.m.

Smokers: Phi Sig house. 5625 Woodlawn, 7:45 p.m Phi Psi house, 5555 Woodlawn, 7.45 pm.

Wednesday, October 13

Lecture: Professor W. Heisenbeig, 'On the theory of turbulence." Eckhart 133, 2:30 p.m.

Carillon recital, Rockefeller Chapel, 4:30 p.m. James R. Lawson, chapel carillonneur.

Sailing club meeting U discuss racing plans. Ick Noyes, north reception room, 7:30 p.m.

Science Fiction club meeting featuring quiz program u -d prizes. Publisher and anthologist T. E. D kty as master of ceremonies. Everyone invited. Ida Noyes library, 7:30 pm.

Lecture: "Temples in the Sand," (Oriental Institute) Breasted Hall, 8:30 p.m.

Smokers: Beta house, 5737 University, 7:45 p m. Phi Gam house, 5615 University, 7:45 p •

Seminar (Deportment of Social Thought), Jacques Mantain, visiting professor of Fr ich philosophy and culture, "Tolerance: i meaning and practical implication." Social Science 122, 4 p m.

Lecture and discussion: Pierre Dclattre, chairman Chapel house Committee on religion a art, "Existentialist expression in modem art," sponsored by Porter ^roduate fellowship. Chapel house, 7:30 p m.

Socialist club meeting to elect officers and discuss program. Ida Noyes, 7:30 pm

Motion picture: Moby Dick (American). International House, 8 pm. Admission 35 cents.

William Vaughn oody lecture, "What is the background of music?" Dr. Ralph Vaughn Williams, English musician and composer, visiting professor of music, Cornell University. Mandel hall, 8:30 pm.

Thursday, October 14

Smokers: Kappa house; Psi U house, 5639 University.

Friday, October 15

Fulbright scholarship odline for undergraduate and graduate students. William Birenbaum's office, Reynolds club 202.

STUDENTS!

WUCB 640 KC.

Monday, Oct. 11

9:30 a m.—WEFM re-broodcost

7 :30 p m—Evening Preview 7:40 p.m.—Early Evening News 7:45 p m—Guest Star: The M>dernaires

S 00 p m.—World of Music (<!••ical music)

9:00 p m—Vox Parnossi: readings from John Donne

9:30 pm—Late Evening News

Tuesday, Oct. 12

9:30o.m.—WEFM re-broodcost 7:30 p m—Evening Preview 7 :40 p m—Early Evening News 7:45pm—Music Mort (popular music)

8:00 pm—Dos Deutscher (German language program )

9:00 p m—Lote Evening News 9:05 p m —Bedtime Story

Wednesday, Oct. 13

9:30 a m.—WEFM re-broadcost

7 :30 p.m—Evening Preview 7 :40 p m —Early Evening News 7:45 p m.—Midway M’crophone (interviews with compus personalities)

INTERNATIONAL HOUSE MOVIE PROGRAM

Assembly Holl, Mondoy and Thursday Evening at 8

Monday, Oct. 11 — PYGMALION (English) — Adm. 45c Starring Leslie Howard

Thursday, Oct. 14 — MOBY DICK (American) — Adm. 35c with John Barrymore and Joon Bennett

8:00 p.m.—French Language Progrom

8:30p.m.—New Sounds ’progressive jazz)

9:00 p.m.—Lote Evening News

Thursday, Oct. 14

9:30 a.m.—WEFM re-broodcost

7:30 p.m.—Evening Preview

7 :40 p.m.—Early Evening

7:45 p.m.—United Nations Report

8:00 p.m.—Spanish Language Pro, grom

8:30 p.m.—Masterworks from France

9:00p.m.—Cloud 640 ‘disc jockey । m)

1 1 :00 p.m.—Lote Evening News

Friday, Oct. 15

9:30 a.m.—WEFM re-broodcost

7 :30 p.m.—Evening Preview

7:40 p.m.—Early Evening News

7:45 p.m.—Your Novy Show: Roy Anthony

8:00 p m—Musical Masterpieces (classical music)

9:00 p.m.—Lote Evening News

Motion picture: Ghandi, International House, 4 p.m. Admission 50 cents. Porter College fellowship supper.

Speaker, Granger V/jstberg, "Religion and Medicine. Swift hall commons, 6 p.m.

Channing Club meeting; preceded by supper. Speaker, Dr. Leslie T. Pennington, "Unitarianism and Unitarians". 6:30 p.m. Supper 60 cents.

Independent Students League caucus.

Judson library, Burton Judson courts, 7:30 p.m.

Student Representative Party caucus. Ida Noyes, 7:30 p.m.

Monday, October 11

All-campus Student Union meeting. Ida Noyes, 4:30 pm.

University Theatre tryouts for Jean

Got a Lucky Droodle in your noodle?

Mil 11III III I l*ll*IIH*IHIH”£ j Imported | i Japanese Curios I

Studio : 1544 I

E. 57th St. I

endiinand MAKE$25

: Wood Mork color 20c |

5 Luxurious silk 37c S

= Jewelry — inlaid gold and =

 11 in uni mi i iiiiiiii*ii*i ii iii nir

FIREPOLE FOR FALSE ALARMS .

Playwrights Theatre Club

1205 N. Dearborn announces its fall season . • • IBSEN'S exciting PEER GYNT Now thru Oct. 1 7 to be followed bv . • • THE SEA GULL Chekov's pastoral tragicomedy SHAKUNTALA Exotic East Indian Classic RICH BUT HAPPY Theodore Hoffman—a new satire TIME FOR LAUGHTER two ploys by Sholom Aleichem and Wolf Mankowitz

Special Student rate Tues., thru Sat. (8:301 Sun. (7:30) $1.50 - $1.00

Reservations Available at Student Government

Ticket Agency or Call WHitehall 3-2272

MOST BEAUTIFUL WOMAN

IN TURKEY ACCOMPANIED BY VIRY UGLY PR 11 ND

Want to pick up $25? Make up a Lucky Droodle and send it in. It’s easy.

If you want to find out just how easy it is, ask Roger Price, creator of Droodles. “Very!” Price says. Better yet, do a Droodle yourself, like the ones shown here.

Droodle anything you like. And send in as many as you want. If we select yours, we’ll pay $25 for the right to use it, together with your name, in our advertising. We’re going to print plenty—and lots that we don’t print will earn $25 awards.

Draw your Droodles any size, on any piece of paper, and send them with your descriptive titles to Lucky Droodle, P. O. Box 67, New York 46, N. Y. Be sure your name, address, college and class are included.

While you’re droodling, light up a Lucky —the cigarette that tastes better because it’s made of fine tobacco and “It’s Toasted” to taste better.

DROODLES, Copyright, 1954, by Roger Price

CA T. Co. PRODUCT OF

AMni CA*S LRADIHC

FLASH!

“IT’S TOASTED”

to taste better!

MANVFACTURBR OF OGARBTTM

LUCKIES LEAD AGAIN IN COLLEGES!

Newest, biggest survey of smokers in colleges from coast to coast, based on J 34,440 actual student interviews, shows that students prefer Luckies to all | other brands. Once again, the No. 1 reason: Luckies taste better. •

• • #’M*B-•-*•-*• •i October 8, 1954

'The War in Film' Doc. Film Series WNBQ Stars Readings

To be Presented Here This Quarter

“The War in Film” is the theme of a series of five movies to be presented by the film study group of Documentary Films on Friday evenings from October 15 to November 12.

Featured on consecutive weeks will be AU Quiet on the Western Front (U.S.A., 1930), Triumph of the Wi U (Germany, 1934-6), Grand Illusion (France, 1938), Paisan (Italy, 1946), and Arsenal (U.S.S.R., 1928-9).

Tickets for the series are sold by subscription only; subscription prices are $1.50. Showings are at 7:15 and 9:15 p.m.

Fridays in Soc. Sci. 122.

To Be Held in Mandel

Ken Nordine, television’s success story of the year, will appear at Mandel hall tomorrow night at 8:30 p.m. in a highly diversified program of dramatic readings. All seats are unreserved and cost 75 cents.

This young Iowan receives the astronomical figure of $80,000 a year for his T.V. program at midnight on WNBQ. On

The Lavendar Hill Mob will open the fall Doc Film series on Oct. 8 in Soc. Sci 122. Tickets for this series are 40 cents and may be purchased individually at the door. Films will be shown twice nightly, at 7:15 and 9:15, on the nights scheduled.

Other films in the series are Incorrigible (Sweden, 1949), October 12; Pepe Le Moke (France, 1937). October 19; The Young and the Damned (Mexico, 1951, October 26; Pit of Loneliness (France, 1953), Whistle at Eaton Falls (U.S.A., 1951), November 16; Shadow of a Doubt (U.S.A., 1943), November 30; and The Experimental Art Films (Muscle Beach, Mothers’ Day, Four in the Afternoon, Pacific 231, Geography of the Body, No Credit, TWA Corbies, and The Pythoness), December 9.

Anyone who wishes to consult time schedules, the college, the divisions and the professional schools which are completely up to date with all re|orted changes, can examine the time schedules in the file cabinet on the information desk in the Administration building lobby. Here, for tyuick reference, course entries are arranged alphabetically by department or field.

Society Displays Graphic Art

An art exhibition by the International Graphic Arts society is being sponsored on campus by the Renaissance society. The opening for members and guests will be Oct. 12 from 8 to 10 p.m. The exhibit will be open to the public daily Monday through Friday from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. and on Saturdays from 1 to 5 p.m.

The exhibit will include contemporary etchings, engravings, wood-cuts, lithographs, and serigraphs:

Explain NSA’s

Near to Come

The National Student association has planned its regional program for the coming year on the basis of its Illinois regional executive committee meeting held last Saturday at Roosevelt university.

Lawrence Lichtenstein, vicepresident of the Illinois region, stated that the program for the coming year will center on extension of academic freedom week activities, continuation of the fair educational practices code, and inauguration of a newsletter to communicate ideas and events concerning NSA to other schools in the region of NSA.

At the executive committee meeting, a regional planning caucus was arranged, to meet at the University of Illinois October 1921.

Attending the Roosevelt meeting were UC students Bruce Larkin, Lawrence Lichtenstein, and Joel Rosenthal. They are, respectively, president, vice-president, and educational affairs vice-president of the Illinois region of NSA.

Lichtenstein said that the Student Government's NSA committee will need much help during academic freedom week.

this show, “Now for Nordine,” his subdued, husky voice has made him a star. His shows are based on audience requests for particular readings. He is the winner of three television awards for his original concept in oral interpretation called “word jazz." Nordine describes his techniques

Overlooking Alaska Basin

in

the Tetons of Wyoming are four members of the UC Mountaineering club. Their first meeting

as “free association of words and images augmented by music. It’s like playing a clarinet, with words."

At his UC evening copyright restrictions will be dispensed with as lines by “people you can’t get away with reading" are dramatized. Included in his program will be Edgar Allan Poe’s unpublished ‘^he Lighthouse,” Melville, Balzac, Dostoyevsky. Shakespeare, and Clarence Darrow.

An added feature will be the appearance of Dick Marx, described by Nordine as the “greatest expression of mood music since George Shearing.” *

A few spotlights hitting the stage, a high stool, and an old wooden ladder filled with book# will create the dramatically intimate atmosphere.

Women’s Clubs

Begin Rushing

Gifts

We have a wonderful collection in unusual fabrics, interesting textures and subtle colors.

Color + collar + comfort =

Th# right ARROW Shirt for you!

You don’t have to be a math major to figure it out* Arrow shirts offer you so many fine colors and patterns in your favorite collars, that it s a breeze to have plenty of style in your wardrobe.

Shown above are, the Sussex button-down in a neat tatter* sol check, and the smooth Radnor “E in solid colors. Both $5.00. The goodlooking Arrow Sussex in a well-bred stripe, $4.50. They’re comfortable, “correct thrifty too.

A/l/i OW SHIRTS & TIES

UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • CASUAL WEAR

will 7:30 row lake

be held Tuesday night at in Ida Noyes hall. Tomorthey are going to Devil’s for their initial outing of

the season.

Sixty Years and a Day An Adventure in Practical Christian Union

UNIVERSITY CHURCH OF DISCIPLES OF CHRIST

5655 University

(Opposite Bartlett Gym)

Organized October 7, 1894

Communion 10:30 a.m. Morning Worship 11 a.m

Fellowship Dinners Sunday and Friday Wranglers (supper and discussion) Sunday 6:00 DOrchester 3-8142 for reservations

We hold a “full house", of colorful Arrow shirts

Any man can get a hand from the ladies when he spruce# up his wardrobe with color. And right here are colors and patterns a plenty in fine Arrow shirts. Want a check? A stripe? A pale pink? A cool blue? We have ern ... and they’re in the collar sire and style that’s right for you. Get down today — our selection is at its peak, RIGHT NOW! There are Arrow shirts for as little as $3.95,

CHICAGO - EVANSTON - OAK PARK - GARY JOLIET - ALTON - EVERGREEN

Women’s clubs’ rushing period activities begin Wednesday with an Interclub tea in the Ida Noyes library, under the chairmanship of Virginia Bickerstaff.

“All girls 16 years old or over are eligible to rush,” explained Ruth K o p e 1, Interclub council president, “and most eligible girls will receive invitations. However, all are invited, even if they fail to be notified personally.

“The tea is being held as an opportunity for new students to become acquainted with club members, and with the club system itself,” continued Miss Kopel. “And we are hoping that a large number of girls will take' part in the rushing activiites, whether or not they expect to join a club.”

At present there are approximately 60 to 75 club members who are registered on the campus. belonging to four groups: Sigma, Delta Sigma. Quadrangler and Mortarboard, and united under the Interclub council.

Other activities during the twoweek rushing period include coffee and coke dates with club members, parties and the Preferential dinner and dance. Hunt room, off the Commons, has been reserved for coffee dates from October 21 through 26. Club members will invite prospective r ibers there for individual talks.

In addition, each club has tentatively scheduled two evening parties, which will probably be held at fraternity houses.

The Preferential dinner and dance, October 30, culminates the rushing program with bidding for new members.

Eye Examinations

Visual Training

Dr. Kurt Rosenbaum

optometrist

1132 E. 55th Street

HYde Park 3-8372

UNIVERSITY BARBER SHOP

1453 E. 57th

* Fine haircutting

Two barbers working Floyd C. Arnold Proprietor Page 4

THE CHICAGO MAROON

October 8, 1954

Issued once weekly by the publisher. The Chicogo Maroon, at the publication office, 5706 South University Avenue, Chicago 37, Illinois. Telephones: Editorial Office, Midway 3-0800, Ext. 1010; Business and Advertising Offices, Midway 3-0800, Ext. 1009. Distributed free of charge, and subscriptions by soil, $3 per year. Business Office hours: l^o 5 p.m., Monday through Friday.

Allen R. Janger ^ Richard E. Ward editor-in-chief ^ managing editor

Letters Welcomed

The Maroon welcomes letters from its readers. Any comments on matters of interest to the University community, are appropriate subject matter.

Letters should not exceed 250 words. Letters exceeding this limit will be subject to editing.

•he Maroon will not consider for publication letters which do not bear the author’s signature. However, the author's name will be withheld from publication upon request.

Letters should be addressed to Editor, Chicago Maroon, 5706 University Ave.

Letters O-Board orients

On reading your issue oi October 1, I was disturbed to find a statement that SG had spent last spring planning Orientation week. T am sure the statement was not meant to be purposefully misleading. However. I would like to correct any misconceptions which the statement may have caused.

Orientation week is planned and coordinated by the Student Orientation Board in the preceding Spring quarter. Orientation Board is a student organization whose main function is to help new students understand and appreciate the University of Chicago. The Board is well equipped to do this since al) applicants to the Board engage in a program of discussions designed to provide them with a fundamental knowledge of the college and its administration.

Orientation Board members live In the dormitories during O-Week and are on hand to help at all activities. A meeting is called in the spring by the Dean of Students in the college of all student and administrative activities concerned with tfae week’s activities to make final plans and suggestions. Orientation Board, while independent of SG, SU, and all other organizations, always cooperates closely with the campus as a whole. Suggestions about the Orientation Program are always welcome from SG or other organizations.

Jim Rosenblum Chairman, Student Orientation Board

SG Praise O-Board

To the editor of the MAROON:

The Student Government appreciates the coverage that was given in a page 3 article to SG’s activities during Orientation Week. However, the first five lines of the article give a false impression and should be corrected.

It is not the ease, and I did not tell the MAROON reporter it was, that SG “worked to prepare the or ientation program of last week.” Many student groups participated in planning the week's activities, the most directly concerned of these being the Orientation Board.

SG was in charge of certain aspects of the orientation program, and these it. expanded considerably over previous years. Further, to say that “SG provided orientation personnel to greet the new students ... at the dormitories” glosses over the fact that most of the old students working in the dorms during O Week were from O-Board. SG added only three of its own members to this force.

I would greatly appreciate it if the MAROON would note these clarifications.

Clive S. Gray,

President, Student Government

Explains SG jurisdiction

As a member of the Student Government, I want, to express my pleasure about the action of the Phi Delta Theta convention. I think the results are ones which Will please the vast majority of people on the campus. I would, however, like to comment on one important statement made by Mr. Hartzler, as quoted in the Maroon.

Mr. Hartzler said that the Student Government had no authority in this case and that the fraternities are responsible only to the administration. It seems to me that whether you want to think of this power which the SG used as a grant from the administration <Mr. Hartzler’s view', or as as recognition by the administration of the proper powers of the Student Government (my own view ’; it ought to be obvious now that the SG does have the power in these cases, and that this power is recognized by the administration.

This is shown clearly by administration action, first, in not vetoing the Michigan Plan when it was first passed, second, in entering into their present agreement with the SG concerning enforcement; and finally, by various statements made by the Chancellor.

James Handler SG member ISL-Col

Maroon errs

When I was interviewed for the article on “rahrahism” in last week's Maroon, I gave a statement or rather, a statement with qualifications, which I thought reflected my views on the subject.

The statement appeared, but. without any of the qualifications. Contacting others whose statements were also included, I discovered that thev were accorded similar treatment. Phrases of their statements were also pulled out of context. This sort of treatment by your writers can only discourage cooperation from those interviewed.

My impression of the article is almost too commonly voiced to bother mentioning. Let it suffice to say that the article was misleading, inconclusive, and intended only to generate panic.

Ruth Kapcl

Finds football gentleman's sport

The football controversy has raised a great deal of verbal dust on this campus. Many facets of Ulis problem have been discussed:

its effect on the level of intellectual activity on campus, on cultural maturity, and on enrollment. One aspect of the problem has not vet been discussed. I refer to the pleasures which attend a gen tlemth on the day of a contest.

We must picture a lovely Saturday afternoon in Autumn. The sun is shining; it is crispy-cold; there is perhaps a slight frost on the ground. The gentleman puts on his tweeds, fills his hip flask, and goes to the stadium. In the stadium he finds his friends, and

they sit in congenial groups to view the spectacle.

We need not go into the virtues of the game itself. Suffice it to say that it may be very enjoyable. At half-time and at intervals, he is entertained by the school's marching band and cheerleaders. The whole afternoon is calculated to raise one's muscle tone considerably.

The cold, singing, and cheering, and the general excitement will combine to provide the gentleman with appetite and zest with which to eat heartily his evening meal and to prepare for the,series of victory parties which he will attend that evening in fraternity houses, dormitories, and other central campus locations.

This whole complex of activities provides a healthy and wholesome recreation for the student who has spent the whole week hard at work in badly ventilated libraries, laboratories, and classes.

There is a problem. Some students are not gentlemen and might not indulge in this spectatorship moderately. They might allow the thoughts of football to disengage their minds from their more serious work during the week. Or. even worse, they might extend the excellent university policy of wide student participation in athletics to mean that a Student should join the team. This is*not at all intended. It is better that only the professional players provided by some sort of athletic scholarship fund be used for the spectacle.

Jerry Zisook

Robin Hood Fires

First Shot of '54 Campaign Tuesday

Robin Hood's Morrie Band opens its campaign Tuesday with a “town meeting” at 4:30 p.m. in law north. All students are invited to attend and participate in thte open discussion which will follow the forum on “Are Joe’s friends running in Illinois?”

Speakers will include members of the Young Democrats, Young Republicans, Students for O’Hara and Students for Douglas. Following a full discussion of the topic Robin Hood will propose an action program to help defeat “Mc Carthy’s friends.”

To help people understand in the coming election campaign that Mc Carthyism is an issue is an important aspect of program of Robin Hood,” said Suzanne Friedmann, secretary of the organization.

Classified Ads

Wonted

Humorous people to write and draw for Cap and Gown’s ’Phoenix.” Call Irv Sheft, MU 4-9825.

Inexpensive tuner. FM or AM-FM Write room 1F2, 1449 E. 56tb or leave message.

Male student to share 2>'a-room apartment near campus. Dick Levy, Abbott Hall 401. BU 8-9483 or HY 3-8242

Used phonograph Must be able to produce sounds other th^n Matic. Larry Abrams, 530 B-J.

Men! Come up and see our etchings. Not sometime—Sunday. Gates 4th floor north. 1.30-5 p m.

Gibson Spanish guitar. Excellent condition. Cost $160. Price $80 MU 4-6354.

French linguaphone set. Hardly used. Most records played only twice. $47. NO 7-6468.

Buick 1947 sedan. Radio, heater, new tires, excellent body condition $265 or best offer. AL 2-8570 after 6 p.m

Enlarger, Elwood. S^x J1*. condenser, f 4 5 lens. 11x14 ease! 48* upright. Best offer. Joe Wolf. ES 5-1615.

Services

Local moving. Express service to and from depots. Rates reasonable. 1309 E. 60th Street, MU 4-0435 John Sutcliffe.

Creative photography- any and nil Portraiture my specialty. Highest quality, low fees. Joe Wolf ES 5-1615.

Moving? Call Midway 3-9620 evenings for Prime Movers, equipped with car, trailer, and two husky students.

Carmen's Used Furniture Store. Moving and light hauling. 1127 E 55th, MU 4-9003.

James Shoe Repair doe# your work quicklv, efficiently and with a smile. 1312 E. 61st BY 3-8926

Instruction

Painting, life drawing instruction Private classes! For information call Robert Natkin, BU 8-6991. after 6 p.m.

Grtdcrn J 4® ,FINE FOOD13 2 1 Eos! 57th Street

 

✓ Adjustable Wall Pull-Up

z Lamp Only $12.95

/ With finger tip control. A touch of the knob Z and you have it where you want it. Glides / up and down. Swings left or right tin polished Z brass arm. Extends 24" from the wall. Smartly Z styled 14" metal shade available in jet black. Z forest green, chalk while or chill brass with Z fiber glass no-glare diffuser. Takes two bulbs Z up to 75 watts each.

Hermans

✓ 935 E. 55th St. Midway 3.6700 I /

8 “Big enough to serve you. Small enough to want to” £

 

Personal

Cynthia Bowles, please contact Mrs Gerol It is important. PL 2-4199.

Wide Variety of Cultural Events Planned by SU

Student - faculty discussion:1:, daily concerts, and the annual An show are merely p few of the events on SU’s agenda for this year. They are planning to have again the student-faculty discussions during the winter quarter, under the direction of Bill Adelman.

Adelman is also taking care of the daily concerts on the first floor, south lounge of the Hey. nolds club. These are on the Hi-Fi set every afternoon. Monday Friday from 12:30 to 1:30. Programs are announced daily. The concerts include selections of classical and jazz music.

SU will sponsor their annual Art show in November. Anyone who would like to may enter. There will be no entry fee.

Dale Levy said SU might want to sponsor a concert in Mandel hall sometime.in the spring quarter.

WHERE THE Uof C MEETS TO EAT THE C M 1 CAG 0 MAROON

Page 5

Club Hears Episcopal Bishop

UT Presents 'The Enchanted'

The Reverend Francis Burrill. newly appointed Bishop of Chicago of the Episcopal church, spoke last Tuesday at a meeting of the Canterbury club on the topic, “The religion in university thinking.”

I Ie commented on what he called “too much relativity” in the thinking of people today. He expressed his opinion that people seem to have forgotten the objectivity of God. To him,

people are too concerned with overcoming the uncertainties of life and forget that God is ever present; they forget that with true faith in God comes faith in life on earth.

For that same reason, he believes, the United Nations will fail to accomplish the goal it has set out to attain. World peace can never be accomplished by men who supposedly meeting to settle problems of the different countties. actually pay more attention to getting the better of their neighbors.

The UN would be an effective medium to settle problems if the men in it were pious. “The room in the UN building set aside for meditation is very seldom used,’’ he said.

Teach Uncertainty

The ideas of relativity and passive devoutness is partly the result of the Dewey philosophy in education, Burrill believes. This is a cause since it teaches that the child should have everything made easy for him. Everything should be conformed to the child and the child should not be expected to conform to much.

Ue said that education seems to teach that there are many uncertainties in life and that most things are not true except in relation to specific other things. He mentioned Huxley’s statement that a person is not an adult until he realizes that life is but an unsure thing. “When you get to believe this,” he said, “you will not be an adult, but a thoroughly confused person.”

Holds Tryouts for 15 Roles

“The Enchanted,” by Jean Giradoux, will be University Theater’s first production of the year. The play, scheduled for the weekend of November 19, 20, and 21, is to be staged “in the round” at the Reynolds club theatre.

Appearing originally in the 1930s under the title of “Intermezzo,” “The Enchanted” is a fantasy about a small town which is invaded by a capricious ghost. The play’s basic conflict of idealism and realism centers around a young lady schoolteacher who falls in love with the

Student Groups Must Register

All student groups seeking recognition as student organizations at the University of Chicago must register in the student activities office by Monday, October 18, under the provisions of the statute of the Student Government and the code of student regulations.

To secure recognition, an organization must complete the registration forms issued by the activities office, and have ten or more members who are Students in

good standing at the University.

^7/le ^//ff M

PHOTOGRAPHERS

MIDWAY 3-4433

1171 EAST 55th STREET

Everything Photographic

Cameras...

for the beginner and advanced photographer 35 mm., reflexes and all the rest.

Processing Supplies...

we can fill all your dark room needs.

UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO BOOKSTORE

5802 Ellis Avenue M

Now Appearing |

The Fly Nelson Trio J

★ Featuring |

HAL RUSSELL |

WIZARD OF THE VIBES a

Saturday, Sunday, |

Monday Evenings |

i

KENWOOD BOWLING CLUB I

1361 E. 47th St. |

ATIantic 5-9251 x

 

ghost and subsequently as accused of being subversive.

Music written for “The Enchanted” by Francis Poulenc will be incorporated in the UT produc tion.

Tryouts Scheduled

Tryouts for “The Enchanted” will be held Oct. 11 and 12 at 7 p.m. in the Reynolds club theater on the third floor of the Reynolds

club. Tryouts are open to all students. and there are over 15 parts to be cast.

UT will hold an open meeting next Wednesday at 7 p.m. for everyone interested in production work for the play.

At this same meeting, the UT dramatics workshop will be organized.

Folk Concert Features Seeger

Tickets are now on sale at the ticket agency in the Reynolds club for the folk concert to be held in Mandel hall on October 30. The concert will feature Pete Seeger and his five string banjo, Big Bill Broonzy with his guitar, and Sonny Terry’s blues harmonica.

This is Seeger’s third recent appearance on this campus.

Student rate 50c at a H performances

no 7 9071 hyde park theatre ^53^*

Starting Friday, Oct. 8 — For One Week

Charles Laughton — John Mills — Brendie Banzie la Award Winning David Loan's "Hobson's Choice"

We proudly present and enthusiastically recommend “Hobson's Choice" as our choice of the best film of the year. It is a warm, human comedy with riotous moments pregnant moments. The drunken scene with Laughton trying to capture the moon, tantalisingly reflected in street puddles ... is great comedy in the best Chaplin tradition

“A movie blessing ... os flavorsome as a chunk of hot pork pies, 'Hobson's Choice' is a choice to approve."

— Bosley Crowther, New York Times

And for this sumptuous comedy feast the only trimming needed ... a NEWSREEL, a new MAGOO and "PUPPET'S DREAM," a Swedish short import.

When you pause... moke it count... have a Coke

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA COLA COMPANY BY

The Coca-Cola7 Bottling Company of Chicago, Inc.

-Cok.“ to • r.e1Mw.d had. mark. © WSJ. Th. Coca Cota Camp cay

John and Alan Lomax, former directors of the Library of Congress folk music section describe Seeger as “the tall, thin Yankee, who can make a banjo weep like a willow and mourn like a dove one of America’s unique musicians.” Seeger’s banjo playing has its roots in the mountains of Tennessee. In the late thirties he embarked upon his career, playing in such diverse places as New York’s Washington Square and Chicago's Pump Room. He has made records for Decca with the Weavers, and now records for Stimson and Folkways.

Style Improvisational

Big Bill Broonzy’s blues guitar improvisations come from the city slums and the southern chain gangs. His friend and tutor. Huddie (Leadbelly) Ledbettor, said he “was born with the blues.”

In the tradition of blues guitarists his style is improvisational. Through years of association with such artists as Jelly Roll Morton and, Blind Lemon Jefferson the easy rambling style he had in his youth has acquired polish. He is currently running a bar at 36th and Cottage Grove in Chicago, where he plays with a three-piece blues combo. Monday nights Broonzy appears at the Blue Angel with Studs Terkel and banjoist Fleming Brown.

Plays Blues

Sonny Terry hails from Durham, North Carolina. He plays the blues harmonica in an extremely unusual way. Terry obtains half steps without a chromatic harmonica. One of America’s leading harmonica players, Terry appeared with Seeger in the movie To Hear My Banjo Play.

The concert is being held as a benefit to cover the UC NSA delegates’ expenses.

Portraits by

LOUISE BARKER Photographer

1457 E. 57th St. BU 8-0876

^Disc

1369 E. 57th St.

Record of the week BENJAMIN BRITTEN SERENADE FOR TENOR, HORN, AND STRINGS

PETER PEARS DENNIS BRAIN

L.L. 994 $5.95 October 8, 1954

Offer Delegates' NS A Reports

Ames Atmosphere Tense; Any Minority Suspected

By Lawrence Lichtenstein

This summer at Ames over 700 students from all over America held a congress which lasted for ten days and which purported to represent the students of this country. Who were these delegates, why were they at Ames; in what atmosphere did the meeting take place; and, what did it accomplish?

The delegates were mainly upperclassmen, some few graduate students, and a sprinkling of younger people. They came from all size campuses; some were fraternity men; many were students of small catholic schools. There were students from City College of New York and from Rockford College. Most of the delegates were serious; they were interested in one way or another in student affairs. Some wanted to run better student governments and some wanted student exchange between all the nations of the world. Thinking was done in terms of campus clubs all the way up to the nebulous concept of a

student community of the world. It cannot be said that these were shallow or “political” people; or that they were naive or unprepared.

Yet with all this diversity the atmosphere of the congress was surprisingly tense. There was a fairly good consensus that the controversial was to be left alone. A minority, any minority, was somehow suspect. And there were certain issues which the leadership had decided must not be acted upon positively. East West exchange between students was a case of this sort. All kinds of arguments were used against it save the true one; that to have the NSA favor student cooperation, even in principle, with the iron curtain countries was too controversial for the organization to do safely. There was, then, this trend in the congress—that no definite stands were to be taken on controversial subjects. And for this reason there were too many vague and ambiguous statements; too much “investigation” and “referral.”

This atmosphere led to a sidestepping of many issues. The problem of segregation in education was not acted upon all the way through the sub-commission and commission sessions, save for a congratulatory telegram.

It was left for a southern region to protest this in a highly un-parliamentry move. After the protest an excellent report was drawn up, but by only a committee of nine for the whole congress. It was read, and passed unanimously, with something of awe, due to its dramatic presentation.

The report on segregation can illustrate clearly another attribute of the congress atmosphere. There was a distinct pressure to think alike, and opinions ran like waves over the assembled delegates.

After the report was read, a delegate arose, first praising the report, then going on to make a constructive amendment. But this student was hissed from the floor by a congress who did not want their document touched.

But despite this atmosphere which generally prevailed, some positive work was done. The segregation report was of great importance, and the declaration of a national academic freedom week will help safeguard that right.

NSA pledged to wage a more systematic fight against discrimination in education. There were the many service projects improved, such as the international travel service and the institution of a sub-commission which will help student cooperatives to get a start.

The Congress thus had its good points and its bad points. In general. I feel that it did not show progress as it should have; and I was extremely worried by the atmosphere described above. Why this atmosphere was present is not hard to understand. It had two basest?), one on the part of the leadership, and one on the part of the delegates themselves. The leadership of NSA is a paid group of officers and a small bureaucracy under them. These people were afraid for NSA.

NSA has previously come out against any form of UMT; it has said that anyone academically qualified may teach; it has said

See ‘Lichtenstein,’ page 7

Delegates interpret

Two views on the NSA Congress are given on this page by Clive Gray and Lawrence Lichtenstein. Gray attended the NSA seminar on international student affairs held during the summer. Lichtenstein is vice chairman of the Illinois region of NSA.

The question of US-Soviet student exchange is discussed by Richard Ward and Gray. Ward toured the Soviet Union with six other American college editors last January. Gray studied in 1951-52 as an exchangee in Frankfurt, and spent some time in Fast Berlin.

Gray

Lichtenstein

Ward

Soviet Exchange

Views Civen

By Richard Ward

One of the major disagreements between the proponents and opponents of the proposal for student exchange between the US and Soviet Union was whether the National Student association was the aopropriate organization to handle such an exchange program.

The question was raised at the congress why the Soviet Union and communist nations should be singled out for specific exchange program. However, NSA has in the past sent persons to either particular nations or area of the world, but in recent years never to communist nations.

It was logical that NSA explore the possibilities of exchange programs since past NSA congresses had endorsed the principle of exchange of students with all nations as a means of furthering international understanding.

The position of the proponents of the Soviet exchange program took the position that students have a duty to work for international understanding and peace; and one of the means to these ends would be a student exchange program.

The renewed possibilities for contact between the US and Soviet Union and other communist nations have been suggested by the ever-growing number of American student groups that have visited the Soviet Union in the past year.

At the NSA congress in the summer of 1953, it was argued by opponents of the exchange program with the communist nations that it was impossible to travel in the Soviet Union because Soviet visas could not be secured. It is now relatively easy for American student groups to obtain Soviet visas. Two more groups of US students were touring the USSR this summer while the NSA congress was in session.

Almost without exception all the US students who have recently visited the USSR have urged further student contact between the two countries. None have spoken against such exchanges.

Yet, it was argued that while communication was necessary between the US and Soviet Union, that student exchanges—the recent trips by US students to the USSR—established no communication.

That the thousands of Soviet students who came in contact with the American students who visited their country turned completely deaf ears to their visitors seems very improbable.

This notion was completely disproven when during this summer two separate groups of Soviet students requested visas to visit the US. One group wanted to visit US schools and the other wanted to observe the NSA congress.

The applications for US visas (which were denied) were the first from Soviet students in many years. Certainly this demonstrates that the American visitors to the USSR created some curiosity about the US among Soviet students.

Thus the basic question becomes whether we really want understanding between all countries. Understanding does not mean acceptance or agreement with the economic and social systems of other nations. Understanding does mean the eliminator. of suspicions between nations—and suspicions can only be eliminated by freedom of contact, travel and information between all nations. Certainly this is a worthy goal for students to work towards, since they will- be among those killed in a war if understanding between nations is not reached.

By Clive Gray

Since its very beginning in 1946 the National Student association has supported and helped establish short- and long term exchange programs with universities all over the world. But it has never supported such programs on account of any inherent value in them; rather, it has regarded exchange programs only as a means to the end of international understanding.

Since 1951 there have been delegations of students from several western European countries and the United States on tours to Russia, and Soviet students have in turn visited Britain, Norway, France, and other countries. Much has been written by the participants in these exchanges, and this material was available at the Congress; in addition, several of the delegates have talked in person with students who had worked with either side of a Soviet exchange program. It was clear that many of those involved considered the exchange programs a waste of time except insofar as they were able to learn about the intransigent Soviet mentality through them; only in a very few cases in particular in Richard Ward’s statements, did western students report any success whatsoever in communicating their ideas about actual and ideological questions to the Soviet students.

The Soviet students were especially inclined to regard statements of western students either as in some way compatible with the Soviet foreign policy line, or else completely absurd and laughable. There was absolutely no middle ground for them. And even had the Russian students been receptive to conceptions different in sorne real sense from their own, the organization of the exchange programs would have prevented sufficient

So the delegates at the National Congress felt it would be more appropriate to pass a resolution calling for NSA to expand its programs of student exchange (which had already resulted in the presence arid active participation in the Congress of 40 overseas student observers), and outlining the general criteria by which NSA officials could judge a potential exchange program and predict its effectiveness.

These criteria suggest the exchange of “ideas between free agents on a student-to-student basis” as the “most*meaningful type of contact”; they warn of possible misuse of exchange programs for propagandistic ends (and material was produced which proved this had actually happened in the case of the American student editors’ trip to Russia); and they designate as the most meaningful exchanges those which provide a “maximum of individual contact over an extended period of time” and which are “sufficiently flexible to permit participants to gain a representative view of the area visited and people concerned.”

On this basis, then, the NSA international vicepresident, Paul Sigmund of Harvard University, is authorized to negotiate for and establish exchange programs with any country, including Russia. If it is not possible to establish an exchange program with Russia which will fulfill these criteria and thus further the ultimate goal of student exchange, then NSA will concentrate on exchanging students with countries where misunderstandings with the U.S. are equally deep-rooted, but where some

chance of alleviating these of ideas exists.

through communication

NSA Stability, Alertness

Impress Clive Gray

By Clive Gray

What most impressed us at the National Student association congress was the soundness and stability we found within the NSA as a result of the efforts of the national student officers of the association. The picture we gained was of an organization alert to both the conscious desires and unconscious needs of the American student community, and determined to represent the student voice of all levels of policy-making affecting the academic world.

NSA’s leaders may not have succeeded in giving the average American student a feeling that he has a stake in the work of NSA, and, indeed, the number of UC students who will note the existence of the association for the first time through this article will prove that all of us are far from the goal of bringing NSA’s work close to home.

But the fact remains that NSA’s workhorses for 1953-54 have with considerable success brought to bear on Congress the desire of American students for income tax relief and full-scale operation of the government’s exchange programs; have exercised a positive and respected voice in meetings of national unions of students from many parts of the world; and have inaugurated a broad research program, financed by the Ford Foundation, which should help immensely to strengthen effective student self-government on campuses throughout the United States.

There is, however, a sizeable difference between the accomplishments of a competent an<l dedicated group of student administrators such as last year’s NSA officers, and, on the other hand, the results of a congress attended by largely inexperienced student representatives from 300 different schools in all areas of the U, S. Probably most of these 700 students, just as ourselves, learned a great deal about the work and problems of the NSA through hearing the reports of the national officers and reading the background material for the congress’ workshop sessions.

But the positive contributions of the congress in terms of dynamic policy formulation for the Association’s future work left much to be desired. One reason seemed to be that a large segment of the delegates’ time was spent in collegiate “horsing around” — nightly parties and songfests lasting so late as to retard the opening of the morning sessions by an hour and* a half past scheduled starting-time.

Another reason for the absence of inspired thought on the part of most delegates seemed to be a sense of frustration at the complexity of the particular issues confronting NSA. and a sober disparagement of the effectiveness of talk as opposed to action. Most of the issues discussed evoked little controversy, and where resolutions came in for lengthy debate it was often due to disagreement about proper wording and form.

This was because the delegates were generally agreed as to what causes students should enlist

contact between individuals on both sides to get j •

across any well-developed ideas. ’ ’^mselves in, and had little initiative to think out dynamic approches to student action in these causes. Only rarely did the congress catch fire with a sense of the importance of the student’s contribution in solving certain problems, notably in the case of the resolution on implementation of the Supreme Court decision banning school segregation.

In seeking to explain the somewhat indifferent tone of the congress, then, one must account for this inertia of the individual delegates, and not try to cover everything under the term “conservative” or “Mc Carthyite” or "afraid to speak out.”

My opinion is that the congress staff, including the national officers, did not supply the amount of positive guidance that was necessary and therefore allowed inertia to take over partly by default. The cause of this was the concern of the national officers to head off any movement within the congress that might disturb the delicate balance of NSA’s policies at. home and abroad.

Although not worried about any left-wing within the congress — for no one there seemed to fall even close to the fellow-traveler

See ‘Gray,’ page 7 October t, 1954

THE CHICAGO MAROON

Page 7

Discussing NSA policy are (I. to r.) Al Fortier, Carolyn Eggert, Clive Gray, Jan Metros, Dick Ward, Barbara Vogelfanger, and Urry Lichtenstein.

Major Resolutions Of NSA Congress

Academic Freedom Week

An Academic Freedom Week has been celebrated on several campuses throughout the nation during the past academic year. Student governments, student organizations, faculties, and administrations have taken part in these events.

It has always been a primary purpose of USNSA “to maintain academic freedom and student rights” on our nation’s campuses in the interest of our education and of democracy itself. It is both desirable and vitally necessary to the continued integrity of American education to encourage the most a<-tive student support for the understanding of academic freedom on a nationwide scale.

The Seventh USNSA Congress mandates the National Staff to sponsor a National Academic Freedom Week, and specifically to investigate the time, feasibility and the possibility of support from other organizations, and to report their findings to the December National Executive Committee meeting for action and announcement to the campuses.

Fair Educational Practice Code

The United States National Student Association stands unalterably opposed to all forms of discrimination in education which are based on race, religion or national origin.

The USNSA reiterates its past policies and declarations in opposition to such forms of discrimination.

The USNSA directs the Vicepresident for Educational Affairs to continue action toward these ends.

It further directs him to prepare and distribute a codification of all USNSA policy on this subject and to disseminate information concerning progress toward achievement of the goals set forth in these basic policies and declarations. Moreover, it urges its member schools and its regional organizations to do all in their power to achieve these previously mentioned goals.

It also directs him to prepare from the existing policy of the USNSA a Fair Educational Practices Code.

The Student's Right to Knowledge and the Free Use Thereof (Part Only)

It is with regret that at the present time the USNSA is compelled to make a declaration on behalf of the students of the United States concerning the problem of loyalty as it bears on academic freedom. Furthermore, inherent in the current problem of loyalty is the consideration of the rights and responsibilities of educators.

At the outset, it should be stated that NSA believes that the only grounds on which a professor should be judged are his professional competence and integrity. This principle is basic. Only for lack of professional competence and integrity

should a professor be removed from a teaching positioi

The NSA believes that membership in any totalitarian conspiratorial group or organization that advocates the violent overthrow of the United States government requires acceptance of certain principles and methods which surrender freedom in the search for truth. At the present time, in almost every case, such membership extinguishes the ability of a professor to be professionally competent. In addition, the NSA reaffirms its belief in the democratic process of law wherein an individual is presumed innocent until proven guilty. In accordance with this principle, yve point out that membership in totalitarian conspiratorial groups or organizations that advocate the violent overthrow of the government is not, in and of itself, sufficient grounds for dismissal from a university position, but that dismissal is justified only after investigation of each individual case proves professional incompetence and lack of integrity.

Declaration on Exchange of Persons ’Part Only)

USNSA has always believed In the free exchange of students as a means of furthering its fundamental objective of promoting international understanding and fellowship.

The Association notes that such programs of exchange do not constitute ends in themselves. They must successfully take account of a number of factors if they are to achieve their intended purpose of promo t i n g international understanding and fellowship.

1. The most meaningful type of contact results from a free exchange of ideas between free agents on a student-to-student basis.

2. It is recognized that the exchange of students often may be utilized for the purposes of partisan political propaganda, thus subverting the legitimate intentions and purposes of the student groups involved.

USNSA authorizes its international vice-president, with the approval of NEC, to expand the Association’s present program of exchange as a means of reaching a wider number of students throughout the world, whenever such programs are commensurate with the underlying principles and objectives of USNSA in furthering international understanding and fellowship. Adequate assurances of compliance with the factors mentioned above must be obtained prior to the initiation of any program. The international vice-president is also instructed to take specific measures to encourage and assist the member schools and regions in promoting and financing such exchange.

Exchange With the Soviet Union (Defeated)

Since the Sixth National Student Congress progress has been made in the improvement of communication between students of

Maroon Presents NSA Reports

On pages 6 and 7 the Maroon presents a report on the seventh annual congress of the National Student association (NSA) held at Iowa State College August 22-31.

Twelve UC students, who were elected in all-campus elections, represented the students of the University of Chicago.

More than 700 delegates, alternates and observers attended the NSA congress from over 250 colleges and universities in the U. S.

NSA was founded in Chicago in 1946 as an organization to represent American students. More than 800,000 students are on the campuses which have membership in NSA.

The annual congress is the highest legislative group of NSA. Between congresses, the National executive committee meets several times to help the national officers implement congress decisions. The NEC may also make emergency policy decisions.

Delegates from UC were Bruce Larkin, Lawrence Lichtenstein, Clive Gray, Jan Metros, Richard Ward.

Lynn Burns, Albert Fortier, Fred Solomon, Carolyn Eggert, Barbara Vogelfanger, Robert Floyd, and Shirley Long served as alternates.

the United States and the Soviet Union. Four separate groups of American students have journeyed to the Soviet Union in the past year. In recent months a group of Soviet youth and student editors have requested permission to visit the United States.

The American student today faces a world divided by strong antagonisms and suspicions between nations. As students, we believe that the maintenance of communication between students of all nations can be one of our contributions to secure a peaceful world.

The USNSA believes that efforts should be made to effect student exchange between the United States and the Soviet Union and other communist countries. The USNSA believes that Soviet students should be permitted to observe American student life and educational institutions, and that Amedcan students should continue to observe Soviet student life and educational institutions.

Implementation on Supreme Court Ruling on Segregation (Part Only)

Segregation in education by race is unethical and unwise. It is now also unconstitutional. The USNSA, pledged to seeking the elimination of such segregation, urges the swiftest possible integration of the races at all educational levels, in all parts of the country. In the face of ethical concepts, legal requirements, and global ramifications, there can be no justification for delay in the implementation of the Supreme Court decision.

With appreciation of the complexity of the transition now at hand, with concern for the dislocations and turmoil which must be met with courage and sense, and with enthusiasm to use the opportunity whose challenge and promise is of a finer America in a -cher future, we suggest the following principles as guides to aid in the achievement of the aforementioned objectives:

L The immediate ending of segregation in institutions of higher education in all geographic areas.

2. The immediate desegregation ot all units of public education in those states in which the cultural pattern, distribution of population, racial attitudes and other conditions warrant. Such a policy would result in the total desegregation of education in Maryland, Delaware, the District of Columbia, Kentucky, Missouri, Oklahoma, and West

Work of U C Group Explained by Chairman

By Richard Ward,

UC NSA Delegation Chairman

The delegates and alternates representing the students of the University of Chicago at the 7th Annual National Student Congress were active participants in all the major activities, and debates of the Congress.

The most important questions which faced the Congress concerned academic freedom, implementation of the Supreme Court decision barring segregation in public schools, student economic welfare, and international student relations.

The Congress adopted three resolutions primarily concerned with academic freedom. The delegates have called upon NSA to sponsor an academic freedom week during the current school year. UC delegates unanimously supported the academic freedom week proposal.

The most enthusiastically greeted resolution was one praising the Supreme Court decision on segregation. The resolution made recommendations for the implementation of the decision and proposals for student activity. Only four persons dissented or abstained out of the entire Congress.

The resolution called for immediate abolition of segregated schools in higher education. It recommended selective desegregation in lower schools. Some delegates expressed opposition to this section.

Another important concern regarding deprivation of rights to minority groups was embodied in a resolution which directed the NSA vice-president for education Virginia (the so-called border state areas).

3. The application of the principle of selective desegregation on a unit-school and grade basis in those states in which existing racial attitudes are more sharply defined, the proportion of Negroes to whites greater, and the cultural patterns less flexible.

A. National

1. The Educational Affairs Vice President shall collect and disseminate to member schools information on the progress of integration.

2. The Educational Affairs Vice President shall make a general report to the Eighth National Student Congress, outlining progress made in this field during the 1954-55 school year.

We recommend that each region of USNSA act as a coordinating agency within its own territory for the purpose of holding discussions and exchanging information.

Cray (from page 6) category — the national officers were afraid that the pro-Soviet exchange forces might succeed in committing the association to. an intractible and politically unwise position on that question.

As it happened, their proposal was defeated 235-69, after the delegates had had an opportunity to hear detailed reports on previous student exchange programs with Russia, and decided the wiser policy would be to empower the NSA international vice-president to enlist NSA’s support behind individual exchange programs as circumstances warranted. In line with this, exchange with Soviet Russia is not excluded.

In the end, no faction succeeded in putting the NSA in an irresponsible light on any major question, and the congress staff felt relieved. But we had to wonder whether their efforts (and some of our own) had been as positive as later insights indicated they could and should have been.

Now all this is water over the

al affairs to draw up a fair educational practices code. The code would be compiled from NSA policies which oppose all discrimination in education based on race, religion, or national origin.

Another FEPC resolution with an already formulated code was defeated. The UC delegation originally supported that resolution.

Whether or not NSA should endorse the principle of student exchange between the United States and Soviet Union was the most widely debated question at the student congress.

The role of the UC delegation stood in marked contrast to the unanimity expressed in the debates for an acadenre freedom week, an FEPC code, and other important resolutions.

Standing against exchange proposal, which was defeated by a large majority, were Clive Gray, Bruce Larkin, Barbara Vogelfanger. Jan Metros, Al Fortier. Voting for the exchange were Larry Lichtenstein, Carolyn Eggert, Fred Solomon, Carolyn Burns, and myself.

On other international exchange issues, the Congress voted to involve itself in a program of international exchange with "all countries.” Members of the UC delegation who supported the Soviet exchange proposal disagreed over the interpretation of “all.”

The work of UC delegation members did not end with the close of the Congress. Bruce Larkin and Lawrence Lichtenstein served at the post-congress national executive committee meeting. Larkin was elected chairman of the executive committee, NSA’s highest policy group between annual congresses.

dam. and a fine group of national officers for the coming year will give the NSA one more mighty push forward. Also, delegates for whom the discovery of NSA’s importance was a revelation at the congress will vigorously interpret the meaning of the association’s work to their campuses.

But officers and delegates at the eighth national student congress next year would do well to study the lesson of Ames.

Lichtenstein (from page 6)

that international understanding among the students of all countries is a positive force for peace. To say these things today would endanger NSA. For the officers the answer was simply not to say these things; and this is the idea they tried to implant in the delegates.

This was done in various ways; in the exchange sub-commission everytime there was a danger of the students thinking favorably of East-West exchange, the international vice-president was summoned and he arrived on the scene usually with three or four helpers-, to quench the fire. The first few times his arrival might have been coincidental; after two days of such hurried entrances it became obvious just what their purpose was.

The fact that the officers succeeded as well as they did, as illustrated by numerous sidestepped issues by issue "referred” and issues "investigated” merely means that a great part of the. time students were not thinking individually or courageously about the controversial issues; and the atmosphere of the congress supplied the milieu for such lack of thinking.

Nevertheless there was some excellent thinking and forthright action at the Congress, as may be seen from the examples above. It is this positive action that was taken, and the obvious potential in the students for more, courageous action, that is encouraging. This, coupled with the recognition of the necessity and importance of a national student organization makes NSA a fertile ground for continued student participation. October S, 1954

Urey to Receive Award

Harold C. Urey, Martin A Ryerson distinguished service professor in the department of chemistry and a member of the Institute of Nuclear Studies, will receive the 1954 Testimonial Award of the Chicago Chapter of the American Institute of Chemists this evening.

The award will be made at a dinner in Professor Urey’s honor. He will be granted the award “in recognition for his active devotion to the thesis that scientists have an obligation to society as citizens equal to their obligation as scientists; for his unceasing efforts to emphasize the use of fissionable materials and nuclear devices for peaceful purposes; for his outspoken defense of academic and scientific freedom, and for his distinguished scientific achievements.”

Excerpts from Professor Urey’s talk to be delivered on this occasion, will be published in next week's Maroon.

Dream Studio Opened in Lexington Haphazard Exhibit Featured

by Edna Bashkin

The art student's dream studio has been opened in Lexington hall.

The campus studio, previously housed in the basement of B-J. has moved to larger, perfectly lighted, and more easily accessible quarters in Lexington. Its excellent workshop facilities are open to all students interested in painting, sculpture, etching, drawing from life, or exploring any of their experimental ideas in art.

The studio will be open during the following hours ev°ry week:

Graduate Fellowship

Tuesday and

Wednesday

To Give Programs

“What is Existentialism?” will be the theme of a series of programs to be held in Chapel House on five successive Thursday evenings, it was announced by the graduate fellowship of the Porter foundation. Porter Foundation is the Presbyterian and Congregational sponsored program on campus.

The first meeting, held yesterday, was an open house for

Thursday

Friday Saturday

1:30-4:30 p.m.

6:30-9 p.m 6:30-9 p.m.

9 a.m.-noon 1:30-4:30 p.m.

9 a.m.-noon

It will also serve as an exhibition gallery of student and fessional work throughout year.

The present exhibit, which

prothe

wili

new graduate students who were addressed by Professor J. Coert Rylaarsdam on “Existentialism and the Bible.”

The following programs in the aeries will take up the relationship of existentialism to several other fields. Pierre Delattre. chairman of the Chapel House committee on religion and art, will lead an illustrated discussion next Thursday on “Existentialist expression in modern art.”

During the three succeeding weeks. October 21 and 28. and November 4. the speakers and •objects will be Dr. Helmut Seckel of the department of pediatrics. “Existentialist thought in psychiatry;” John B. Thompson, dean of Rockefeller chapel, “The

existentialism of Sartre and Camus;” and Perry D. Le Fevre of

the Federated Theological

ty, “Existentialism in

Christian thought.”

The meetings are open

faculrecent

to all

members of the University community.

Petitions Due

All petitions for candidacy in the Student Government elections must be filed by next Tuesday, according to Herb Schwartz, vicepresident of SG. The elections will be held the following week on

run for two more weeks, is a retrospective show of a great variety of student work. It suffers somewhat from a rather haphazard selection of “stuff left behind,” but this is also a point of interest because of the great variety in media, approach and quality of the work.

Tn addition to a number of rather noisy humanities I exercises in color and some lumpylooking clay pieces, there are several works of real interest. Among

the most notable is a painting by Daniels. This is done in a hodgepodge of media, but in spite of this “experimental” character, it carries weight as a strong, dramatic composition.

Though quite simple, Schoolcraft's study of the steel mills very quietly evokes a strong mood reaction with its restrained rosy glow and solid, plain forms. It has a quality of stability and simplicity greatly lacking in even the better student paintings.

The one possible exception is an unsigned tempera wedge between two rather ordinary paintings by Harry Adler. Adler does, however, show a skillful and sensitive hand in his ink drawing of horses.

Among the sculpture, there are three pieces in particular very much worth seeing. Jane Fern uses her solid forms and defined

has both the awkwardness and unconscious grace of all young animals.

Joe Pincus’s two-figure piece, unfortunately broken and poorly exhibited, is nevertheless worthy of study if you can find it in the back of the cupboard.

Nicest of all the sculpture is the half-dancing, half flying colt by Mrs. Fern. It is built in plaster over an armature on a tall wooden support which lifts it high in the air and helps the horse in his movements.

The entire group of pastels could be dispensed with. Contrary to much popular l^lief, pastels is not an easy medium and to use them well takes a great deal more than the ability to hold the chalk stick.

The many black and white drawings and etchings are generally good, studied work and in special areas very expressively— their quiet way raise the quality

especially in the young deer which of the entire exhibit.

A CAMPUS-TO-CAREER CASE HISTORY

Toxoid Qiven

Tetanus toxoid was administered to all incoming students as a part of their physical examinations for the first time this year.

The only preventive treatment for people who have not had the toxoid is tetanus anti-toxin, a substance to which may people show a great sensitivity. If the toxoid has been administered previously, however, a booster shot of the toxoid is sufficient and no ill effects result.

A doctor on the Billings staff said of the new shot, “It’s about time they did (give the toxoid), for the same reason that they are given to kids going to camp and to men in the Army—that is. unless they have previously had a tetanus shot, they will be in a mess if they should cut themselves on a rusty nail. There is no harm in giving these shots.

21

of the authe student located in

tumn quarter and the last for the present SG will be held next Tuesday in law south. New SG members will assume duty the Sunday following the elections.

25 be

filed at the office of Student Government in the Reynolds club.

All students with a C average or better are eligible for candidacy. Petitions are available in

the SG office and in service center, both Reyno^s club.

The first meeting

Thursday and Friday, October and 22.

Petitions must be signed by registered students and must

8

Genuine Rlper-Mkte Pen Silvered-Tip REFILLS in Red • Green • Blue

• Block

n

H

BLUE

RFO

WILBUft JUST WOKE UP TO THE FACT THAT HE$ IN CLASS' - Don’t let that “drowsy feel#)"” cramp your style in class ... Or wheft you’re “hitting the books”. Take a No Doz Awakener! In a few minutes, you’ll be your normal best... Wide awake alert! Your doctor will tell you—No Doz Awakeners are safe as coffee. Keep a pack handy!

15 TABLETS, 35e .

Ktt P AURT f OR A

UTTUt POINT AVt RAGt!

•Phi Beta” i

pack 1

35 tablets |

b handy tin

49c W. D. Carland. E.E. ’52. Univ, of California, is working for the Pacific Telephone Company. We thought you'd be interested in what Don told us about his first assignment.

(Reading time: 45 seconds)

Here Don

Garland makes noise distribution measurements with a Level Distribution Recorder

49* us

♦och

bell telephone system

r *

#<x:

noqoz

AW A KENE RS

>$&#^:&?^,^

My job is to help solve problems of noise and other interference on telephone lines due to power interference. Inductive co-ordination is the technical term for the work.

“In addition to this on-the-job experience,' I have attended several special training courses conducted by the company. Now I’m breaking in a new man, just like when I started.”

instantly. Get Paper Mate Refills wherever /

-' pens are sold

fl

Exclusive new Paper-Mate

^ Silvered-Tip Refill &i means smoother, faster

writing! Just 10 seconds to If. insert... never blots... dries

“First thing the Chief Engineer explained to me was that ‘all the answers aren’t in the book.’ He was right. Most of the problems have required a combination of electrical engineering, a knowledge of costs and generous amount of ingenuity. I like it that uay. It's given me an immediate opportunity to put into practice the theory I learned at school.

Don Garland's work is typical of many engineering assignments in the Bell Telephone Companies. There are similar opportunities for college graduates with Bell Telephone Laboratories, Western Electric and Sandia Corporation. If you’d like to get more details, see your Placement Officer. He will be glad to help you

 October 8, 1954

THE CHICAGO MAROON

Rage 9

Mexican Stipend Offered to VCers

The Mexican government, through the Mexico-United States commission on cultural co-operation. is offering sixteen grants to (IS students for study in Mexico during the academic year beginning March 1, 1955.

Although these grants are designed to cover full maintenance and include tuition, applicants should have other funds for incidental expenses and travel costs. Five undergraduate awards will be 800 peso^ (approximately 400 dollars) a month for the academic year t March 1 to December 15, 19551; eleven graduate awards will be 860 pesos (430 dollars) monthly for the academic year. A 2(to peso (100 dollar) increase in slipend is under consideration, but at this time there is no assurance of an increase. Preference will be given to junior and senior '.ear students in the awarding of undergraduate scholarships.

Applications must be filed, with all supporting documents, not later than November 1.

luncheon served at

P University Theatre Presents

Ken Nordine

Qifierb tlousc,

Oct. 9

6:30 p.m.

Mandel Hall

From 11 :30 to 2

.. graciou Ji

tt STTNATio<5- hyoep Ari 5-4500

<

75c J

Enjoy

Budweiser

354-10

ANHEUSER-BUSCH, INC, ST. i OUIS • Hi WASK • IOS ANOBLIS

Shimer Gets Proxy WUCB Will Be Heard

In his induction last week as seventh president of Shimer College, Dr. Francis Joseph Mullin emphasized Shimer’s interest in the religious and social experiences provided for the student body, as well as in their 

intellectual development.

President Mullin spoke in Metcalf auditorium before an audience consisting of students, faculty, and residents of Mount Carroil, on "Values that matter.”

Dr. Mullin, graduating with dis

Housing Here

Eleven married student couples are moving into the University’s newly purchased building at 1413 E. 60th. These furnished apartments were made available to tenants of the University’s pre-fab apartments first and then to others on the housing waiting list.

The apartments are limited to married students without children. There are ten two-room apartments and one four room apartment, which rent for $60 and $80, respectively.

u

For an evening of

graduate study visit the UT

55 th 4 University Ml 3-0524

tinction, received his AB in psychology from the University of Missouri. He then attended the University t of Chicago where he received his M A. and Ph.D. in physiology. After several years of teaching in the medical school at the University of Texas, Dr. Mullin returned to the University of Chicago where he taught in the college and the medical school.

In 1951 he became the dean of faculty and President of the Chicago Medical School. Prior to this he was secretary of the faculty and dean of students in the division Of biological science. He was also president of the national intern matching program.

Dr. Mullin holds, in addition to membership in Phi Beta Kappa. membership in Sigma Xi. Mrs. Mullin is the past assistant director of student activities at the University of Chicago.

this is

CHEESE FESTIVMVS TIME

Serve Cheese’# Budweiser

What 6 delightful combination!

At International House

International house residents will be able to listen to WUCB next week, according to John Lyon, manager of the campus

radio station.

Difficulties with the telephone company have prevented the house transmitter from going on the air thus far, but the station staff is hopeful that connections will be completeci and broadcasting begun by Monday.

WUCB, also known as Radio Midway, will be picked up at a frequency of 640 by any AM radio in the house. The station now has transmitters in Burton-Judson and the C-Group and can be received anywhere in these dorms.

The station started broadcasting last Monday with a minimal broadcast schedule. Currently it is presenting its own programs from 7:30 to approximately 9:30 p.m. Monday through Friday, and re-broadcastings programs of WEFM, an FM station, for the remainder of the time from 9:30 a.m. to midnight. Eventually the station hopes to extend its own program to 10:30 or 11 p.m., and

When you know your beer

it’s bound to be Bud

No wonder cold Budweiser always gets such a warm welcome ... for here is the beer of all beers, one that costs more to brew than any other beer on Earth. How does it taste? So delicious that more people have enjoyed more Budweiser than any other beer in history.

leads All Beers In Sales today and Through The Tears!

the possibility of Saturday afternoon broadcasting is also being considered.

Several new programs have come into existence this year, and more will probably follow. To Dus Deutscher, the German language program heard Tuesday evenings at 8, have been added a French and a Spanish language program on Wednesday and Thursday evenings, respectively, at the same time.

Another innovation is the United Nations report, a bulletin published by the UN summarizing the activities of the various UN organizations and committees each week. This is heard Thursdays at 7:45 p.m.

B&G-Made Repairs Need and Depend On Good Weather

There are holes in the walls of the Fieldhouse. From all reports from the department of Buildings and Grounds this and other emergency repairs are being undertaken as a part of its annual repairs program. Such emergencies include modernization of the Culver basement toilet room and replacement of the roofing ami sky lights over the animal quarters in Billings.

According to superintendent Zellner the Fieldhouse walls are in especially bad condition. Being in dire need of cement, they have the immediate attention, four weeks of it. of the repair crew. In an interview with a Maroon reporter one of the workingmen stated that filling holes with cement is a job that requires caution and good weather. "Rain puts holes in the cement,” he said. Page 10

THE CHICAGO MAROON

October 8, 1954

Describe History of Football, Fights, Incidents Mentioned

By Sam Greenlee

The pigskins are flying through the air—well, they are in some not-too-distant places—and so are the invectives about overemphasis. Over half a century ago a guy who happened to be a college president, of all people, became the first member of the overemphasis school when he refused to permit the school football team to compete in an intercollegiate contest'with another university. “I refuse to authorize the travel of over a hundred miles by students of this institution to engage in the agitation of a bag of wind,” said the prexy. He should see things now!

Students Travel

Not only do students travel over • hundred miles to agitate said bag of wind but sometimes thousands and occasionally make ocean voyages as do some of the Pacific coast schools annually to play the University of Hawaii. Instead of a few bored students with nothing to do lounging along the sidelines as spectators, huge stadia filled to overflowing by up to * hundred thousand screaming maniacs witness this thing called football. Even more important, although our prexy's modern counterparts would be the last to admit it. is that the people in those huge bowls of concrete and steel pay cash on the barrelhead to watch the game.

Tell Moral

This brings us face to face with that thing that used to come at the end of every story, but which appears earlier here because, believe it or not, this ain’t no fairy tale. That thing, kiddies, is a moral. It might sound something like this: once upon a time football was a pleasant way to get one’s heads bashed in in relatively discreet privacy. or to really die for old Siwash, also with few witnesses. Then along came a Joe whose favorite pastime was paying some of his weekly allowance to see two guys beat each other to bloody pulps while he cried in the pear shaped tones he had learned in the speech class he flunked the year before. ‘'Kill da bum!”

The aforementioned portion of his allowance plus that for beer and the burlesque show meant that our hero had to forego his lunches and skimp on Saturday night dates. This character, who we shall call Ethelbert because all heroes must have names, happened to pass the football field one day and almost ran into two stretcher bearers carrying a gory figure to the student health infirmary—God rest his soul.

Curiosity Aroused

This aroused Ethelbert's curiosity because he hadn’t seen so much of the red stuff since the pugs stopped boxing bare knuckle. He thereupon rushed over to the field, which had half a dozen of the player’s fraternity brothers standing around in hopes that one of said players would break a leg —just slight, of course, so that they could borrow his tux for next week’s formal. With one glance Ethelbert observed that here were not two but twenty-two men bent on annihilating one another — which was eleven times better. Besides, his view was not obscured by smoke, and most important he could see this mass maul for free.

Gets Stouter

Soon our hero’s cronies observed that he was getting stouter

from eating his lunches regularly, that he was always with enough money for beer and that he sometimes took out two girls on Saturday. These things provoked questions which Ethelbert refused to answer but it was observed that he was among the missing at the weekly fights and that he was going for walks every Saturday afternoon. They decided to follow him on one excursion, since Ethelbert was known to hate fresh air almost as much as math. Word got around and soon as many as a few hundred reformed boxing fans would crowd the sidelines to witness the carnage and interpose “Hit ’em again,” for the time honored. “Kill da Bum!”

Crowd Pushes

The coach found that the crowd often got out of hand in pushing closer to view the slaughter and thereupon hit upon the idea of discouraging them by building a fence around the field and charging admission.

This had the age-old effect of proving that the whole thing must be worthwhile because, after all, it cost money to see. This led to building stands on the edge of the field which in turn proved inadequate, until by the time Ethelbert, Jr., was using his old man’s crib notes to flunk math under the same professor, the “U” had mortgaged the campus to build a permanent stadium to be used five Saturdays a year.

Thus an investment was made which made it necessary to make a profit which made it necessary to win since blood alone was not enough to attract the decadent younger as it had their parents. The coach, therefore, spent his summers looking for big husky farm boys to provide enough beef to win a few games. So you see, kiddies, football was no longer a game where a man could commit suicide or murder in privacy, as the mood hit him. but a business requiring profits. Then some of the teachers who showed how much they hated money by refusing to work for a living — and taught instead—and prompted by the fact that the coach made more dough, pointed out that school was a place for higher learning and such base extracurricular activities as football were out of place in such an institution. This the t e n - m e n coaching, the athletic news bureau, the accountant who counted the profits, and the trainer who patched up the behemoths pooh - poohed because they were character-builders as any fool could plainly see.

Ranks Swell

The revolutionaries became ultimately to be known as de-emphasizers and their ranks were swelled when a big university in a big, dirty city whose initials are Chicago attracted less man-mountains than they had in years previous when they had trampled everyone in sight and becoming thoroughly sick of being slaughtered every Saturday and sicker of the empty stands decided that they didn’t like the nasty old game and the money they weren’t making anymore, and packed up their ball and quit.

So now we find that every fall colleges are split like was said in the last paragraph and professors choke every time they think how the coach makes more dough—• and with only a bachelor’s degree, too, and college presidents who

Sam Greenlee, shown going on for Wisconsin, has finally come on to Chicago where he is now' running longer distances in soft shoes for the cross country team.

don’t have adequate recruiting staffs and can’t get the fancy stepping backs and huge linemen decide that recruiting should be curtailed, and the sportswriters write that nothing’s wrong with the set-up because just look how the press boxes have improved, and the coaches become nervous wrecks because their quarterback calls the wrong play in the big game and they have to look for a new job the next season, and the old grads get drunker than they had when trying the stuff for the first time as freshmen, and the students sit up in the corner of the stadium and wmnder how those characters who certainly aren’t in school get to sit on the fifty-yard line, and the guy in charge of selling tickets tries to think of some way to keep the “college atmosphere” and still get the students out of the stadium so he can hike the prices of those seats, and the players practice five or six hours every day until the game ain’t fun no more, and some people go out every Saturday and enjoy hell out of the game without trying to analyze its unhealthly influences.

And just to show' that this may be a fairy tale after all the moral come at the end because it might not be so clear after what has gone before. So it’s this: if Ethelbert had had enough money to get drunk on beer the night before he discovered football was such a fascinating game he w’ould never have had a hangover and never passed the field at such a fateful time which started the whole sordid mess in the first place.

Camera Club Active

The Camera Club opens its membership rolls to all students. The club has an excellent darkroom, good studio facilities and has done much in the past to provide an interesting and profitable photographic year, according to a club member.

UC Dogs Taken for Horses Race Each Other, Qet Ready

By Paul Baptist

"They’re off and running at Washington Park!’*

"You’re nuts, buddy, they’re running at Hawthorne already.”

"Not horses, dopey, but the UC harriers.”

“Oh, dog races, I didn’t know' they had ’em in these parts.”

Friday afternoon, in an intra of the season tomorrow, the UC canines were divided into tw’O teams by their famous trainer, Ted Haydon, and pitted against each other in a dog-eatdog three-mile contest in Washington Park. In a blanket finish. Paul Baptist came out top dog with a 16:22 effort, closely followed by Walt Deike, Jim Flynn, and Toulouse Otromundo in that order, all with times inside 16:30. And when Ted Fishman and Lowell Hawkinson finished iaside

Advertisement — Advertisement -squad tune-up for the opening

17 minutes, it marked the best teaem performance at three miles in the history of the University.

Back in the locker-room, the dog-tired runners gleefully anticipated the rounding into shape of such established performers as Sam Greenlee. John Srrothers, and Ken Stapley, and the perpetuation of their dynasty by a promising crop of first year men headed by Dave Houk, Ned Price, and John Spaulding.

- Advertisement — Advertisement

On Campus Max Shulman

(Author of "Barefoot Boy With Cheek," etc.)

THE U OF C's . MEETING PLACE FOR 27 YEARS VISIT OUR COLLEGE ROOM FOR GOOD FOOD READERS THE CAMPUS DRUG STORE 61st & ELLIS Opposite Burton Judson WE CARRY COMPLETE STATIONERY SUPPLIES ORDER YOUR XMAS CARDS NOW Your Name Imprinted — 20% Discount in October Only 

MY COUSIN HASKELL

I have a cousin named Haskell Krovney, a sweet, unspoiled country boy, who has just started college. A letter arrived from him this morning which I will reprint here because I know that Haskell’s problems are so much like your own. Haskell writes:

Dear Haskell (he thinks my name is Haskell too),

I see that you are writing a column for Philip Morris cigarettes. I think they are keen cigarettes which taste real good and which make a pleasant noise when you open the pack, and I want to tell you why I don’t smoke them.

It all started the very first day I arrived at college. I had just gotten off the train and was walking across the campus, swinging my cardboard valise whistling snatches of Valencia, Harney Google, and other latest tunes, admiring statues, petting dogs and girls, when all of a sudden I ran into this fellow with a blue jacket, gray pants, and white teeth. He asked me was I a freshman. I said yes. He asked me did I want to go places on campus, make a big name for myself, and get pointed at in fashionable ballrooms and spas. I said yes. He said the only way to make ail these keen things happen was to join a fraternity. Fortunately he happened to have a pledge card on him, so he pricked my thumb and* I signed. He didn’t tell me the name of the fraternity or where it is located, but I suppose I’ll find out when I go active.

Meanwhile this fellow comes around every week and collects his dues which are $100. Lately he has been collecting $10 extra each week. He says this is a fine because I missed the meeting. When I remind him that I can’t go to meetings because I don’t know where the house is, he twists my arm.

I have never regretted joining the fraternity because it is my dearest wish to be somebody on campus and get pointed at in spas, but you can see that it isn’t cheap. It wouldn’t be so bad if I slept at the house, but you must agree that I can’t very well sleep at the house if I don’t know where the house is.

I have had to rent a room. This room is not only hellishly expensive, but it isn’t the kind of room I wanted at all. What I was looking for was someplace reasonably priced, clean, comfortable, and within easy walking distance of classes, the downtown shopping district, the movies, and my home town. What I found was a bedroom in the home of a local costermonger, which is dingy, expensive, uncomfortable, inconvenient, and I don’t even get to use the bed till six o’clock in the morning when my Landlord goes off to mong his costers.

Well, anyhow, I got settled and started going to classes. But first I had to pay my tuition. This came to a good deal more than the advertised rates. When I asked the bursar what the extra money was for, he told me lab fees. When I said I wasn’t taking any labs, he said I was taking psychology which counted as a lab because they used white mice. When I offered to bring my own mice, of which there are plenty in my room, he twisted my arm.

So I* paid the man and went to my classes where I found that all my professors had spent busy summers writing brand new textbooks. Over to the bookstore I went, saw the prices on the textbooks, and collapsed in a gibbering heap. At length I recovered and made indignant demands to speak to the proprietor, but they told me the Brinks truck had already taken him home for the day. There was nothing for it but to buy the books.

Next I turned to romance—and found it. Harriet, her name was—a great, strapping girl. I first spied her leaning against the statue of the Founder, dozing lightly. I talked to her for several hours without effect. Only when I mentioned dinner did she stir. Her milky little eyes opened, she raised a heavy arm, seized my nape, and dragged me off to a dimly lit place called The Trap where everything was a la carte. She ordered cracked crab ($1.75), sirloin Chateaubriand ($7.00), a scuttle of french fries (18( the french fry), an artichoke (30( the leaf), and compote (80( the prune).

. After dinner she lapsed into a torpor from which I could not rouse her, no matter how I tried. I banged my glass with my fork. I did bird calls of North and South America. I pinched her huge pendulous jowl. I rubbed the legs of my corduroy pants together ... But nothing worked, and finally I had to sling her over my shoulder and carry her to the girls dormitory, to the vast amusement of everybody along the route.

But it was not the jeers of bystanders that bothered me. It was the hernia. Fortunately, medical care for students is provided free at the college dispensary; all I had to pay for were a few extras, like X-rays, anaesthesia, operating room, forceps, hemostats, scalpels, sponges, catgut, linens, towels, amortization, and nurses. They would not, however, let me keep the nurses.

So, dear, cousin, if you see me these days without a Philip Morris cigarette, it is not because I don’t like Philip Morris cigarettes. I do. I flip x Hien I taste their mild rare vintage tobaccos. But I can’t afford cigarettes. I can’t even afford matches, what with fraternity dues and room rent and lab fees and textbook prices and my girl Harriet and medical care.

Well, I’ll write you again soon. Keep ’em flying.

Yr. Cousin,

Haskell

©Mu Shulman. 1954

This column is brought to you by the makers of PHILIP MORRIS who think you would enjoy their cigarette. October 8, 1954

/HE CHICAGO MAROON

Page 11

Soccer Season Opens

With pointed toe and full concentration John Godfrey dribbles downfield in soccer practice Monday. On Wednesday his tricky dribbling and accurate shooting scored the Maroon’s first goal of the season, against Morton.

Sports Doings Are Varied

Twenty basketball candidates reported to practice Monday including “C” winners Fred Hubbard, Bill Lester, and Dick Homer. Even with 6' S1^* Hubbard on the court a bystander shrewdly remarked, “We’re still a team of little men, we still don’t have the big men.” Practice continues every day in the Field house from 3:30 to 5:30.

Walt Deike, medical student and ex-western conference cross country champ, has decided to use his remaining year of eligibility in competition this year instead of next. Deike, a smooth “picture” runner, had originally planned to wait until the season prior to the '56 Olympics to do his last collegiate running. His decision adds another good runner to Ted Haydon’s already large group.

“Do your friends avoid you because you don’t know the airplane spin? Wrestle!” Anyone convinced by these lines on a poster in Bartlett gym began learning the airplane spin last Monday.

Wrestling coach Al Bates is particularly anxious about bringing his brand of popularity to some heavyweights this year. His charm school runs five days a week in Bartlett.

Art Omohundro, at 118 pounds, the featherweight champ of the track and cross country teams, has had his name changed. His running mates have unofficially rechristened him “Toulouse Otromundo,” apparently for aesthetic reasons. This new label will not make typesetters any more confident through the track and cross country seasons. Etaoin shrdlu.

Adjoining the wrestling mats in Bartlett are the rubber mats and wall mirrors used by the fencing team. Foil, sabre and epee men began practice there Monday, but without a full time coach. Alvar Hermanson must guide the soccer players on Stagg field most afternoons until the end of November.

Next Monday marks the start of intramural touchball and tennis play. The all-University tennis tournament begins the same day, the winner to receive the M-medal in that sport.

Don Donderi uses some of the disarming technique he has learned in Al Bates’ “charm school” on clench-teethed Chuck Carlson.

UC Opens Soccer Season,

Win 6-1 Against Morton

Substitutions and shifting lineups marked the Maroon soccer opener on Stagg field Wednesday, six players scoring as many goals to down Morton Jr. College, 6-1.

Coach Alvar Hermanson seemed to be using liberal substitutions to gauge the skill of his men in preparation for tomorrow’s away game at Wheaton. He sent three or four new

men into the game in every quarter, particularly after Chicago jumped to a three goal lead in the first part of the game.

John Godfrey, Dick Stavely, and Said Aby-Rish all scored in the first quarter Godfrey’s goal, first of the season fo the Maroons, came on his st ialty, a

X*greasy hair spoiling your looks? keep it neat without greaser with wildroot cream-oil^

penalty kick. The goals by Stavely and Aby-Rish came in quick succession. and Morton n wer seemed in real contention afterward".

Morton’s lone score came in the second quarter, Rich Stranski kicking that one for the visitors. But Bill Vanderbyl answered with one for Chicago in the same period. George Stone added another in the third quarter, and Ron Crutchfield made it six in the final period while Morton was held scoreless. Morton rarely even got the ball past their own midfield line, being forced to the defensive for most of the \

In spite of the game’s onesidedness, Coach Herrnan.cn had reason for shifting f'c lineup in search of his best players.

*. J. Reynold* Tobacco Company, Wlnaton-Balcm. N. C.

AGREE WITH MORE PEOPLE THAN ANY OTHER CIGARETTE!

SMOKING CAMELS

REAR ADMIRAL U.S N (Ret )

SUCCESS STORY

I STARTED

24 YEARS AGO.

YOU CANT BEAT

EM FOR FLAVOR.

-AND BELIEVE

ME,CAMELS ARE

REALLy MILD 1 11

Commander of the first Nautilus,

submarine which sank Japanese carrier at Battle of Midway; awarded three Navy Crosses; today, a Baltimore chemical company executive.

AND HOW IT STARTED...

Admiral Brockman says: “I prepped at Baltimore Polytech, found I liked math and electrical engineering — required subjects for a Navy career.

But it was getting licked in lacrosse by the Navy plebes that got me interested in Annapolis. My break on an appointment came when two ahead of me failed on exams. I worked hard to graduate, got into sub class, did some teaching, eventually earned my own sub command.”

Start smoking Camels yourself. Make the 30-Day Camel Mildness Test. Smoke only Camels for 30 days - see for yourself * why Camels’ cool mildness and rich flavor agree with more people than any other cigarette!

SUCCESS STORY

Camels - America’s most popular cigarette ... by far! October 8, 1954

New Instructors Join College Faculty;

Six Others Return to Active Teaching

There are several new faces among the college faculty this year, besides the return of six instructors who have been away from active teaching positions on the UC campus.

Roger A. Nicholls, a former lecturer in the university college of the University of Toronto, has taken the new position of assistant professor in German in the college, and will also instruct in the German divisional department,

William E. Hazen and Lloyd L. Arnold II have been added to the staff after a year of teaching internship. Both are teaching natural sciences in the college.

Robert Reiff is a visiting assistant professor of humanities in the college. He is a member of the department of fine arts at Oberlin College and will be here one year.

Frank C. Erk has been added to the biology staff. William H. Spragens is teaching mathematics, and Marvin B. Sussman is a member of the social sciences staff. All three men are here on visiting professorships in general education from the Carnegie foundation.

Returned after teaching at the University of California at Berkeley, W. H. L. Meyer, Jr., is an associate professor of m a t h e matics. John P. Netherton is back as assistant professor of Spanish

after one year of travel and research in Spain.

Robert M. Palter, assistant professor of natural science, had been teaching at Northwestern. David Riesman, professor of social sciences in the college and social science division, lectured last winter and spring at Johns Hopkins University, and was at Harvard during the summer. Edgar S. Rose is teaching in the humanities after a one-year Ford foundation faculty fellowship. Also returned from a Ford fellowship, which was spent in France, Jay C. Williams is now an assistant professor of social science.

ACASA Book Store

Scholarly used books Typewriters bought, sold and repaired

E. 55th St. Ill 3-9651

UC Instructors Receive Aid from Ford Foundation

Six UC instructors are being aided this year in one-year teaching internships by the Ford foundation, from its fund for the advancement of education. Here on the internships are Fred E. Kasner, Ronald J. Nunke, Gersom M. Rosenthal Jr., Marcella Tilton, Morris Weisfeld and George C. Williams.

The program has been set up to enable new Ph.D’s to carry a lighter load. This allows them more time for orientation and reflection while they are developing instructing techniques.

Mademoiselle Reporter Here

Miss Margaret Fechheimer, campus representative for Mademoiselle magazine, will provide information and answer questions concerning the annual Mademoiselle college board contest at an informal tea given by the student activities office at Ida Noyes hall at 4:30 p.m. this afternoon.

The contest will select twenty guest editors to help write and illustrate the August 1955 college issue of the magazine and is open to all undergraduate women under 26.

Playwrights to Open Chekov's "Sea Gull"

Playwrights Theater’s interpretation of The Sea Gull by Chekov will open on October 19.

The story of “young people who would be great artists and great artists who would be young again” was written by Chekov as a study of the old concepts of art as opposed to the new concepts held by a younger generation.

Joyce Hiller as Nina, Zonra Alton as Masna, Lee Henry as Trigarin, and Byrne Piven as Dr. Dorn are cast in the leading roles.

Playwright’s is located at 1205 N. Dearborn.

rosemary zwick

contemporary hand-made jewelry

Bordelon Designs 1424 E. 55th St.

University Book Store 5802 Ellis Ave.

Forum Meet

Plan Events

Forty-five students met for the first time Monday to discuss forensic activities for the year.

Marvin Phillips, director of Student Forum, outlined plans for 1954-55. Terry Sandalow, assistant debate director and Roger Bowen, former debate director of Brown university, staged an impromptu debate on Asian policy.

Forum members are beginning to prepare cases on the national resolution, “Resolved: That the United States should extend diplomatic recognition to communist China.” Tomorrow at 10 a.m. members will meet in the Forum office to discuss Far Eastern policy.

Membership is still open for experienced or interested debaters to join Student Forum. Purdue, Bradley and Michigan are already scheduled to meet Chicago debaters, and an extensive Chicago area debate and discussion program is planned.

ASK ABOUT

OUR 105

Jimmy’s

1172 E. 55th

MITZIES Flower Shop at 2 convenient stores

1225 E. 63rd St HY 3-5353

1301 E. 55th St Ml 3-4020

l O°/o and 20% student discount

COMO AND HOGAN

Perry Como, top TV and recording star, and Ben Hogan— only active golfer to win 4 national championships, enjoy a Chesterfield during a friendly round of golf.

UHM

-" .'^

•^e*

k PMR’

WHAT A BUY - CHESTERFIELD King Size

(at the New Low Price) and Regular

Like Ben and Perry you smoke for relaxation, comfort and satisfaction. In the whole wide world no cigarette satisfies like a Chesterfield.

V ou smoke with the greatest possible pleasure when your cigarette is only Chesterfield has the right combination of the world’s best tobaccos—highest in quality—low in nicotine.

In short, Chesterfields are best to smoke and best for you.

LARGEST SELLING CIGARETTE IN AMERICA'S COLLEGES