Hall

University of Chicago, April 23, 1954

Top ten candidates express views

Yesterday and today the student body of the University of Chicago went about the process of electing w,n make the hail jump as they delegates to the seventh annual National Students Association convention. The election, heralded by both Xdinmi X^10 °* * ^ ISL and SRP as extremely important, has been marked with great pre-election campaigning and intense “ The first part of the program

feelings.

Of the three groups into which the candidates are divided, the National Representatives are considered the most important. The MAROON, in an effort to bring to the campus the views of the political parties, interviewed all candidates in the “top five.” Clive Gray, president of Student Government and a candidate, stressed the accomplishments of this year’s SG and ISL’s five year record at NSA conventions. He said:

“The ISL candidates believe that their work this year in Student Government and the experience they and other ISLers have gotten as Chicago’s representatives to the last five NSA congresses qualify them to be sent to this year’s congress also.

In yesterday's' voting in the National Student Association election; 684 ballots were cast. The voting will conclude today. The following is the schedule of the times and places where ballot boxes will be today.

Business School

1:00 p.m. - 3:30 p.m.

Cobb Hall

9:15 a.m. - 4:00 p.m.

Mandel Corridor

9:15 - a.m. - 6:30 p.m.

Med. Students lounge

4:00 p.m. - 6:00 p.m. Hitchock lounge

4:30 p.m. - 6:45 p.m.

Social Science

9:30 a.m. - 5 p.m.

Swift Hall

9:15 a.m. - 12:45 p.m.

The results of the election will be published in next week's MAROON.

“In putting through the news student service center and the housing co-operative, the ISL candidates have shown honest perseverance, and, they believe, ability to a higher degree than their opponents. If sent to the Seventh NSA Congress this summer, they pledge themselves to a program which will be carried out with similar perseverance.

“I feel very strongly that if the campus wants really responsible

Consider Mayflower hotel for housing co-op location

A cooperative housing project may be set up next year by Student Government if enough students sign up. Although SG was unable to arrange for a loan from the University to buy a house, plans are underway to rent part of a building.

The proposed cooperative would be located in the Mayflower Hotel at 6125 Kenwood Avenue. These are the terms of the

co-op:

1. The entire second floor in the Mayflower Hotel would be leased to the SG co-operative group, comprising 140 students.

2. Two students will be accommodated iii each of the 70 rooms on the floor, and will pay rentals directly to the treasurer of the group.

3. Each student would pay an average of $25 rent per month, on the basis of two per room.

4. The hotel management provides electricity, heating, all furnishings, and decorating services to the students. In addition, it would remove a partition between two extra rooms, for which no rental was charged, and furnish them as a common-room and meeting quarters for the co-op.

Student Government will set up formation tables all over camdelegates to be sent to the NSA Congress, then it should continue, as in the past five years, to place its trust in ISL.”

The position which SRP has taken in the election was expressed by Paul Breslow, leader of the minority party in SG. He noted that ISL had not answered the questions which his party has put forth. Breslow also went on to define the basis for NSA strength. His formal statement reads:

“SRP has offered to the campus. in its platform and supplemehtary material, a detailed concrete liberal program for NSA which deals’with the main issues of concern to students. I wish that for once ISL would discuss the proposals which we have made, on such issues as academic freedom week, discrimination, UMT, international exchange and the economic crisis in education, rather than the vague, cynical and irrelevant campaign we have seen thus far. We don’t suggest NSA can cure the ills of mankind; its power rests in the faith and convictions’of the American student.

‘.‘Our program is NOT pie in the sky, but it offers more than a few stale crumbs for purely local consumption.”

Continuing SRP’s position, Dave Bobrow, an independent running with SRP endorsement, centered his discussion on a definition of the main campaign issue and an explanation of why he is running as an independent with SRP backing.

“The key campaign issue is whether or not NSA can become a strong effective representative of American students. The American student is currently without such effective representation. The NSA was set up to actively advocate the wishes of students on matters both off and on campus. I agree with the other members of the SRP slate that a platform which emphasizes action on discrimination, student exchange, UMT. and economic problems confronting students and universities is both good and practical. The SRP slate is composed of individuals capable of aiding NSA in arriving at a sound position in

pus next week in order to publicize the co-op project and sign up residents for next fall. If the interest proves great enough, SG announced, it will bring the project before the Administration for final approval before the middle of this quarter.

Interviewed by the MAROON Wednesday night, Clive Grey, president of SG, described the proposal as extremely favorable. Upon examining the hotel Gray said he had found the rooms suitably spacious for two occupants, and was much impressed with the fact that each room had an individual bathroom and shower. He added that the hotel contained an automatic launderette, a sizeable lounge, and television • viewing room on the first floor, and emphasized that its fire-prevention system met fully with modern

See ''Co-op/' page 5

these areas. I disagree with opposition charges that ‘freedom of thought, freedom from fear, freedom from racial and religious discrimination and freedom from want’ are hollow rhetoric. I believe that words are only hollow when their speaker does not intend to actively support them. We independents are running because we support these concepts. We have accepted SRP endorsement because be believe it is the only political party at this University which will positively work in NSA for the preservation and encouragement of the four freedoms.”

Eli Stein, chairman of SG’s committee on recognized student organizations, voiced ISL’s definition of NSA and ,went on to express his views on his and his party’s qualifications:

SC committee drops one, keeps another on ballot

One independent candidate in the current National Student Association elections has been dropped from the ballot. Another candidate’s name is on the ballot by a decision of the election and rules committee of Student Government overruling a recommendation of Student Activities Director William Birenbaum.

Independent Franklin Loomos’ name was stricken from the ballot when it was pointed out that he does not meet the constitutional requirements concerning grades. Loomos had filed for national delegate along with Philip Wyatt, a fellow member of the track team and the only candidate remaining in the race not endorsed by a political party.

Miss Joli Lasker, Independent Students League candidate for regional alternate, kept her name on the ballot by appealing Birenbaum’s recommendation to the elections committee.

Acrotheatre’s spring show features Mexican routines

A New Mexican motif has been selected for this year’s Acrotheatre production, scheduled for next week end at Mandel Hall.

Titled “Acrodeo,” the show features modern dance and ballet routines as influenced by Mexican Indian, Spanish and Western cowboy costumes and specialties.

With an emphasis on the creative dance, the production will include a toyshop scene,

night life number, a toreador scepe and a Mexican folk dance.

'Sunset', impression

Mrs. Dolores Wharton, wife of a UC student who is doing research work, has created for Acrodeo an impression of “Sunset” from the Grand Canyon Suite.

Louise Fechheimer has created a novelty dance, “Dude Indian,” for the show and Dorothy King is doing a magician number.

Indian war dance

A solo authentic Fox Indian war dance has been created by Steve Polgar, a student of Indian customs in the anthropology department. Polgar has obtained a full war costume from a Fox Indian.

Despite the shift to dance emphasis, Acrotheatre has included a trampoline act based on a bunkhouse bed early in the morning as'well as juggling and tumbling acts.

Three-day run

Acrodeo is scheduled for Friday and Saturday, April 30 and 31, at 8:30 p.m. and Sunday, May 1, at

roof ali Mqnc

by Wofrt H Ray Spachner ' ^J

Some real cool jazz an 1 hot jam

way of UC students Sunda program will be a presentation ice (WUS).

Big names in jazz like Baby Dodds on drums, Art Hides on piano, Lee Collins on trumpet, Preston Jackson trombone,

“NSA is the means whereby students throughout the nation can meet to discuss their common needs and problems and decide how to help themselves. Most important, it provides a mechanism by which progress toward these goals can be made from day to day throughout the rest of the year. NSA helps individual student governments become stronger, and helps them cooperate. As one who is very interested in seeing our Student Government increase its powers and responsibilities, and our students receive the benefits given to them by NSA, I want to do my best to serve in NSA. I feel that ISL, which has had years of experience in serving the UC student body in practical ways, and of providing NSA lead See "Top Ten," page 7

Birenbaum’s challenge to her candidacy was made in a letter to the committee revealing her grade average is below C. Miss Lasker appealed on the grounds that the low grade had not been reported to her by test administration at the time she filed for nomination.

The committee, headed by Marlin Smith (ISL-law), ruled that only grades known before the final day for filing may rule out candidates. Miss Lasker, a student in the college, remains a valid candidate, pending a possible appeal to the Student-Faculty-Administration Court.

3:30 p.m. Tickets are available at Bartlett Gym and at the Student Service Center in the Reynolds Club basement.

General admission is $1.50 and reserved seats are $1.85.

Mexican merchants ply their business in this scene from "Acrodeo." Ronnie Graham juggles his oranges to impress the tourist, Phil Cohen (left). Watching the scene are (left to right) "Crick" Schacht, Bob

Herndon and Jan Porter. -*

will come the andel Hall. The

e World University Servand singer Betty Roche with Duke Ellington’s band will be among the “kool kats” who

will consist of duos in jazz, or as they might more properly be called, duels in jazz. Two saxes, two trumpets, and two pianos will battle for solo positions.

Promise roof-raising

The second part of the program will be a jam session, which promises to be one of the greatest roofraising affairs ever, according to Elliot Kulick, chairman of the event. Concluding this great jazz program will be a jazz march, an affair in which the musicians march up and down the aisles of Mandel Hall as they play.

Tickets for the affair cost $1.50 for reserved seats and $1 for general admission from WUS or the Student Service Center in the Reynolds Club basement.

Produced by jazz editor

The conceit, which is being produced by Dan Burley, associate editor of Ebony magazine and

jazz editor of five other magazines, will be the first time in 15 years that Chicago jazz musicians have had a chance to have a get together with out of town musicians.

Kulick urged all UC “kool kats” not to miss this program.

Dance Saturday night

Also sponsored by WUS is Stu Clayton for dancing at the gym of Ida Noyes, Saturday from 9 p.m. to 12 p.m. Admission is $2.50 per couple for the dance.

FDR subject of Politics Club talk

Rexford Guy Tugwell of the UC Committee on Planning will speak

on “F.D.R. as a Political Technician” next Wednesday, under the sponsorship of the Politics Club. Tugwell served in many important capacities during the New Deal period, among them Assistant Secretary of Agriculture, Chairman of the New York City Planning Commission, and Governor of Puerto Rico.

“He has an intimate knowledge of the Roosevelt period; and F.D.R.’s political techniques are of special interest now when the party alignments of the past two decades are under serious stresses,” stated a spokesman for the Politics Club. The talk will be given in the East Lounge of Ida Noyes Hall at 8 p.m. Page 2

THE CHICAGO MAROON

April 23, 1954

Qore declares ‘Joe must go’

Keisen: 'Absolutist philosophy

in academic freedom speech

The originator of the "Joe Must Go” recall movement in Wisconsin, editor Leroy Gore, spoke before a group of students in Mandel Hall on April 15 during Academic Freedom Week. He was sponsored by the UC chapter of Robin Hood’s Merrie Men.

Gore, who began the movement fo recall Senator Mc Carthy

incompatible with democracy

from the Senate, called the response to the recall petition “unbelievable.” Of the 403,000 signatures necessary to recall Mc Carthy, over 185,000 had been obtained a week before Gore’s talk.

He described the large volume of letters received from people both inside and outside Wisconsin as encouraging. “However,” he stated, “we also receive many

Pick Swift for

FTS confab

Swift Hall will be the meeting place of the federated theological school’s second annual “Student Conference” on Wednesday and Thursday.

The conference, initiated by the student bodies of the four theological schools on campus and now joined by “federated” faculty members, has as its goal a better understanding and a more intimate "community between student and student, faculty and faculty, and student and faculty. The general subject matter for these addresses and discussions was decided after polling the student bodies to see what problem was of most concern.

Four principal addresses will serve to define the nature of the conference. Speakers and their subjects are as follows: Bernard E. Meland, “An Age in Between;” Daniel Day Williams, “The Response of the Christian Faith;” John B. Thompson, “The Challenge of Rival Faiths;” and Mallory Fitzpatrick, “The Present Crisis and Our Vocation.” Discussions will follow each talk and will serve to point up student and faculty reactions.

A worship service will open each day of the conference in Rockefeller Chapel at 9 a.m. Lunch will be served daily, but only for those who have made reservations by noon Monday.

Freedom views given by Urey, Wick, Bettelheim, Llewellyn

Academic freedom in its relation to the educational disciplines was discussed by Harold Urey of the natural sciences, Warner Wick of the humanities, Bruno Bettelheim of the social sciences, and Karl Llewellyn of law, on April 15 in Mandel Hall.

Urey defined academic freedom as "the right to express in our classrooms whatever view we hold to be correct in our special field, without veto from the university or investigating committees. This implies the right of the student to study whatever he wants,” he added.

This definition of academic freedom, Urey quickly pointed

out, is a very limited one. “What is a classroom and what is a specialty? We can’t quite say what the limits of our classrooms or our specialties are,” he declared. Universities shouldn't conform

“Most people in a country like the US conform,” Urey continued. “But conformity is foreign to the ideals of a university. They pay professors to produce new ideas. It is possible to make a university conform, but when you get through you won’t have a university.”

Wick, of the philosophy department, discussed the necessity to philosophy of having academic freedom. “The philosopher examines things that weren’t before examined,” he declared. “Philosophy must live in freedom or it cannot exist. When we are not doing our business (free examination) we are the most useless faculty of the university.”

Universities limit freedom

According to Bettelheim, repressions of academic freedom have often come from within the universities themselves. He said by way of illustration, “Let me tell you about my great master Freud. He taught, but he didn’t have a clinic. It was not the government, but the colleagues who didn’t like Freud’s teachings. The students

threatening letters, letters which promise kidnapping, assault, and other similar types of attack.” Gore suggested that letters of this sort reflect the type of leadership Mc Carthy affords his followers.

Gore felt that if the necessary signatures were procured by May 17, the deadline, the constitutional problem involved in the recall could be surmounted. The problem is found in the fact that the federal constitution provides for impeachment of a Senator only by the Senate. “However,” Gore stated, “this provision was made before the right to elect Senators was given directly to the people.” ।

“Even though I supported Me- ; Carthy in the 1952 election, his methods embarrassed me.” He । compared Mc Carthy’s methods in : hunting Communists to “shooting ] fleas off a dog with a shotgun; ( you don’t get rid of any fleas, but < you do kill the dog.

who wanted to study under him weren’t called before congressional committees, but they knew they could get into lots of trouble.”

Must take risks

Llewellyn posed the question, “Isn’t the risk (of repression of freedom) in organizations such as the university one that we have to take?” He declared, “The law says that you have to take the risks of living. There are some limits you can put on, but they’ve

by Arthur Solomon A definition of democracy which emphasizes its character as a method and procedure for reaching political decisions, rather than as a system serving a preconceived "public interest,” was stressed on Monday by Hans Keisen, professor in the Naval War College, and a noted • scholar in the fields of jurisprudence, political theory and international law.

In the first of a series of six Walgreen lectures on "The Foundations of Democracy,” Keisen observed that the 20th century has seen the rise of several totalitarian ideologies. Of

these, Soviet Communism is the most challenging to democracy, since its appeal is formulated in democracy’s own terms.

Keisen asserted that a fundamental component of this appeal of totalitarianism to advocates of democracy is a distortion which has arisen in the definitions of democracy. This distortion Keisen held to be a shift in emphasis from government “by the people” to the insistence on government “for the people.”

Assumes objective public interest

According to Keisen this distortion of the original meaning of democracy starts from the assumption that there is an objectively ascertainable public interest which the public may not itself realize. The next step is the formulation of “elite” theories, government by an “avant garde,” and charismatic leadership. According to this line of reasoning, any govgot to be a little loosish in order to have room for greatness to go on.”

Llewellyn asked again, “How can you protect people and still get those investigations done that have to be done?” In answer, he stated, “Lawyers are now at work under the impact of recent events to try to iron out and furnish rules for congressional inquiries in the same way that they have furnished rules for other types of inquiries.”

ernment may call itself democratic if it claims to be serving what it believes to be the public interest.

As the primary modern example of this distortion, Keisen pointed to communist theory and practice, which decries the representative element in western democracy as “purely formal,” and which claims to possess absolute knowledge of the interests of the proletariat. It is this very claim, Keisen asserts, which makes a sham out of the democratic pretenses of contemporary communism. For democracy as representative government assumes that a fixed, eternal plan of social organization does not exist, and therefore society must be content with a method for continually revising the social norms with the greatest possible participation by its individual members. Keisen expressed the view that what Lenin decries as “formal” is the essence of democracy, and the only bulwark against autocracy.

'Absolutism vs. democracy'

The objective of his first two lectures, which are titled “Democracy and Philosophy,” Keisen said, is to indicate a correlation between absolutist philosophy, and

Kimpton talks on UC frat relations

Questions of University relations with the fraternities will be discussed by members of the Inter-Fraternity Council and Chancellor Lawrence A. Kimpton at their annual dinner next Thursday.

This year’s dinner is being given by the Kappa Alpha Psi alumni and will begin at 6 p.m. April 29 at their house at 4752 Ellis.

Three representatives from

each fraternity on campus will have an opportunity to ask- the chancellor about current University policy toward the fraternities. They will also have a chance to tell him about fraternity activities this year.

POETRY COMPETITION

Deadline 15 June 1954 For information write POETRY COMPETITION — CASH PRIZES

The Heptagon Club, 550 Fifth Avenue, New York, New York

 COLLEGE MEN

Earn $75 per Week during Summer y 9

(Part-Time Work During College Term Also Available)

For Information Call: WEbster 9-6359

Write:

College Program Director Suite 1318

330 S. Wells St. Chicago 6, Illinois

CAR ESSENTIAL 

political theories which ignore the 'l importance of representative gow I ernment. He went on to suggest a connection between philosophical relativistic and the democratic theory which sees the need fori continual participation by all in reaching political decision.

Continuing his analysis of the two philosophic systems in his second lecture on Wednesday, Kei-. sen attempted to show that civic rights, equality, and tolerance of minority opinion were the necessary political consequences of relativistic philosophy. Since the relativist cannot claim that an eternal truth can be found, he must support “freedom of cognition” in order that decisions can be adapted to new times and situations. For' the relativist, Keisen declared, the minority opinion must always be able to become the majority opinion; the absolutist who has reached eternal truth will only find his goal impeded by allowing those less sapient to be heard.

Discuss aims of

business school

A picture of the curriculum and aims of the school of business will be discussed Wednesday afternoon at 3:30 p.m. Members of the faculty and student body will take part in the discussion to be he M in the second floor lounge of Haskell Hall.

The discussion is the result of a recent survey which indicated that although few of the college students enter the school of business, a high percentage of them enter the business world. The school, according to a recent bulletin, feels this situation is unfortunate and is largely due to the lack ol knowledge concerning business education.

Eye Examinations Visual Training

Dr. Kurt Rosenbaum

optometrist

1132 E. 55th Street

HYde Park 3-8372 April 23/ 1954

THE CHICAGO MAROON

Page 3

Cap and Gown does not spend all of its time turning out its annual publication. Here, in a different atmosphere, we find part of the staff relaxing at an intercollegiate yearbook party. The gentlemen in the center is Ed Maupin, Cap and Gown editor.

Student Advisory Board acts to increase college enrollment by Allen Jonger

What can a student do to combat declining enrollment?

What can a student, enthusiastically in favor of the- college, do to encourage others to come to the University of hicago?

Cap and Cown appearance due in the middle of May

Crammed full of pictures, humor, graduates of this and other years, spiced with analyses of campus academics and critiques of campus organizations. Cap and Gown, UC’s controversial year book, appears again on campus on or around May 15.

“You can save the price of a martini if you reserve your

copy now,” says Ed Maupin, Cap and Gown editor. People waiting until after May 14 will

have to pay $4.50 for their issues. People putting $2 down before publication date will save 50 cents.

This year’s edition introduces a new campus magazine as a supplement to the yearbook. Called the Phoenix, the magazine will take “a humorous approach to campus life.”

Maupin promised a “thrilling expose of the college” by Robert Streeter, new dean of the college. There will also be “thrilling exposes” of all the other divisions of the University, Maupin said.

This year's edition will contain such miscellaneous information as the numbers of the outside phones in the men’s and women’s dorms (“just the thing for calling your girl after the switchboard closed”) and the recipe for Mrs. Kimpton’s favorite punch.

The editorial staff of this year’s Cap and Gown are: Editor—Edward Maupin, associate editors — Mike Rogers and Morrie Schroer, business manager—Tom Deleon, and staff photographer — Bob Sparge.

CANOE TRIPS

Quetico-Superior Wilderness. Only $5.00 per man day for complete outfit, aluminum canoe and food. For free folder and map write: Bill Rom, CANCc COUNTRY OUTFITTERS, Box 717 C, Ely. Minnesota.

THIS IS IT

A PHOTOGRAPHIC SALE TO BEAT EVEN DECEMBER'S

When we say that this is going to be a PRE-INVENTORY SALE we mean just that.

We are going to try and move as much of our stock as we can. As a result of this you stand to obtain PHOTOGRAPHIC items at real sale prices. Savings will range from 20% to 50% of marked prices.’ „

Don't fail to take advantage of this PRE-INVENTORY SALE of PHOTOGRAPHIC ITEMS, starting Friday, the 23rd of April and running 'til Thursday, the 29th of April.

University of Chicago Bookstore

5802 EHis Avenue <

IF-IC dance

The entire campus is invited to attend the Inter Fraternity and Inter Club Pledge Dance on May7th at the Alpha Delta Phi House at 7:30 p.m. Music will be provided by Dick Gerwin's band. Tickets sell for $1.50 and con be bought from any member of the IF-IC Pledge Council.

Chase new head of University’s education dept.

Francis S. Chase, director of the Midwest Administration Center, has been named chairman of the University’s department of education.

Chase, professor of educational administration, succeeds Maurice F. Seay who will become director of the education division of the W. K. Kellogg Foundation.

The new chairman is president of the Education Communications Service, which he founded, and has been a member of the UC faculty since 1945.

Before that he served on the wartime commission for the Office of Education and as executive secretary of the Virginia Education Association.

Chase has bachelor’s and master’s degrees from the University of Virginia and in 1951 added a Ph D from the University of Chicago.

One answer has been the S organization has, according tc a powerful agent in bringing

The SAB activities are based, as Terry Lunsford, admissions counselor working with the group has said, on the idea that “the best publicity for a good college program is the informed and enthusiastic interest of students who have profited from it.” The organization is open to any student in the university. Its next meeting is at Ida Noyes Hall, next Wednesday at 3:30 p.m.

The main work of the board is to advise Mrs. Mc Carn on ways of encouraging students who have been admitted to the college to matriculate. Roughly 1400 people were admitted to the college last

Part of the work of the Student Advisory Board extends to showing prospective students around ihe UC campus. Last Wednesday boys from Lane Technical High School on Chicago's north side were shown around campus by Terry Lunsford, University admissions counselor. Above, Lunsford points out Hutchinson Commons.

Knickerbocker Hotel site of next year's Washington Promenade, announces SU

The Knickerbocker Hotel has been chosen for the site of next year’s Washington Promenade. Plans for the dance were formulated by the Dance committee of SU and submitted to the 11-member SU Board where they were approved in toto.

All plans made thus far are tentative and still must be approved by the administration.

An attendance of 350 couples at this year’s Wash Prom and gross receipts of $1,750 led SU, in anticipation of a crowd of at least equal size for next year’s dance, to set next year’s dance budget at approximately $1,750. Seven hundred dollars or less of this sum will pay for a band.

Feeling that the $1500 expense of a big band such as Woody Herman’s could not be justified, the Board decided to choose next year’s band solely on the basis of its ability to play good dance music, not on the basis of its name.

The choice of locations was between either Bartlett, a south side hotel, or an off-campus hotel. Assuming full administrative responsibility for the decision, the Board chose the near-north side Knickerbocker Hotel. The only

HARRY A. ZISOOK & SONS

University District Renting Office

MAYFLOWER HOTEL 6125 KENWOOD AVENUE

Let us help you

GET OUT OF THE ROOMING HOUSES AND

SUBSTANDARD BUILDINGS IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD

For the convenience and accommodation of the Students, Faculty and Employees of the University we have opened a University District Renting Office to serve you in obtaining better housing.

Come in and let us know what your requirements are so that we may assist you. . *

AVAILABLE NOW AND/OR MAY 1st

Hotel rooms with private bath and shower Sgl.—$8 per wk.; dbl.—$12 per wk.

Hotel apts. with switchboard and maid service

1 rm. furnished apt. at $73

3 rtn. unfurnished apt. at $87.50

office hours .. .9 a.m. to 5 p.m Monday thru Friday THERE IS NO CHARGE FOR THIS SERVICE

main office

HARRY A. ZISOOK & SONS

Real Relate

 

Serving Chicago since 1901

FL 2-5940

Student Advisory Board. Less t Ruth Mc Carn, assistant direci new students to the college.

year, according to Mrs. Mc Carn, but only 314 came around to matriculate. Some had applied to UC only as a second choice, in case they were refused by the school they favored. Others, failing in their attempts to get adequate scholarship aid, could not come because they lacked money. There remained, however, a “critical” number, according to Mrs. Mc Carn, who were frightened off by the University’s reputation for unusual intelligence in its students and heavy work loads in its curriculum. It is this latter group that the Board tries to bring to Chicago.

Here at the University the

other hotel worthy of consideration within the budget was the Shoreland. The smallness of the Shoreland ballroom, the size and attractiveness of the Knickerbocker’s glass-floored ballroom, and the proximity of the Knickerbocker to, many north side night spots decided them in favor of the Knickerbocker.

To accommodate couples without cars SU will subsidize taxi fares to the north side hotel. SU will negotiate with a taxi company to offer reduced rates; then SU will pay up to half of each of the fares with money from the dance budget.

i a year old, this impromptu of student activities, proved

group works closely with the Orientation Board. They arrange for and conduct tours. They get in contact with prospective students in their home towns. They keep in close contact with their old high school teachers.

Several weeks ago, 446 Chicago high-school students, on campus for scholarship exams, were taken in tow by Board members. “Many,” said Mrs. Mc Carn, “were in low spirits after the exams.* The reassurances of students already in the University probably saved many prospective students who would have been otherwise frightened away, Mrs. Mc Can felt. SU plans trips

A camping trip in bear-infested Tennessee forests, cycling and camping, hiking in the Indiana Sand Dunes, and canoeing in Michigan are on the April-May calendar of the Student Union Outing Club.

Ten days of camping, hiking, and loafing will take the club into the Smoky Mountains National Park, Tennessee from June 11-20. The cost of the trip will be approximately $40. Anyone interested in joining the group may contact Jordan Holtzman at Pi 2-9477.

Other trips will include cycling and camping

You Are So Smart to Use a “Gentleman’s Groom Master”

For that well groomed appearance. Train your hair to shay in place. Well-made of strong cotton net with adjustable elastic neck strap to fit ail head sixes. To use: Slightly moisten and comb your hair and wear your "GROOM - MASTER" whila you shave and dress. Just $1. — we pay tax and postage.

Imported and Distributed by; HOUSE OF DIANE

106 E. Russell St. Barrington, IIL THE CHICAGO MAROON

April 23, 1954

Page 4

Issued once weekly by the publisher. The Chicago. Maroon, at the publication office, 5706 South University Avenue, Chicago 37, Illinois. Telephones: Editorial Office, Midway 3-0800, Ext. 1010; Business and Advertising Offices, Midway 3-0800, Ext. 1009. Distributed free of charge, and subscriptions by moil, $3 per year. Business Office hours: 1 to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday.

Arthur Brown editor-in-chief

News editors: Naomi Birnbaum, Allen Janger

News Feature editor: Nellie Stoneman

Feature editor: Daniel Queen

Sports editor: Paul A. Hoffman

Copy editor: Joy Burbach

Advertising manager: Reva Brown Production manager: Joanna Herlihy Page one assistant: Mitchell Slein

Copy staff; Jerry Ex, Pam Brown, Jack Burbach, William Brandon,

Jean

Carlsson

Photographer: Joe Wolf

Editorial sioff: Brina Bailin, Robert Bloch, Davis Bobrow, Poul Breslow, Stephen Cohen, Diane Epstein, Al Fortier, Lennie Friedman, Suzanne Friedman, Miriam Garfin, Richard Herwitt, Ralph B. Hirsch, Roberta Hopkins, Brina Jaffee, Justin Johnson, Jan Majde, Neal Mermall, Arnie Matanky, Spike Pinney, Elaine Pomper, Bob Quinn, Karl Rodman, Wolf Roder, David Schlessinger, Judy Smith, Warren Spachner, Frank G. Ternenyi, John Twomey

Busy freedom week at UC

During Academic Freedom Week over 2000 students, faculty, and administration personnel of UC signed the reaffirmation of the Bill of Rights. Plays, forums, and speeches dealing with basic American freedoms saturated the campus. A great jnany groups cooperated in sponsoring the Week.

All the organizations working on Academic Freedom Week, especially the Academic Freedom Week committee, deserve credit for a job well done.

However, lest it be thought that only during a week devoted to it, is academic freedom taken seriously, we would like to point out that UC is one of the relatively few campuses where students and faculty do not have to be afraid of advocating unpopular views.

This preservation of academic freedom on our campus has, perhaps, four main causes:

First, a UC tradition which encourages freedom of expression ;

Second, a student body which demands open discussion;

Third, a faculty which often is willing to take vocal and intelligent stands on issues;

Fourth, an administration, headed by Chancellor Kimpton, which refuses to penalize students or faculty members for praise particularly for its tacit (if not vocal) support of the [acuity members who refused to testify before the Jenner committee, and for the Dean of Student’s decision to destroy Did membership lists of students organizations.

Academic freedom will continue to exist at UC as long as all segments of the University continue to unite in supporting it.

Letters UMT undemocratic

The SRP platform for the NSA Elections reflects a soundness and maturity in all its aspects save one. This essential weakness stems from SRP’s utter naivete in regard to its stand on UMT. The basic fallacy in the statement that UMT “threatened American students with the prospect of a draft far more extensive than any previous system in American history’’ arises from the fact that no UMT plan yet proposed could come near equaling the requirements in type and length of service now demanded of America’s young men under the Draft Act of 1948 as amended 1951.

Don't the students of SRP know that a draftee serves two years and is automatically part of the reserve on immediate call for eight years after discharge? Don’t they know that an ex-serviceman must file a four-page report on his personal life once each year with the Army for the reserve period of eight years? Don’t they know that hundreds of thousands of troops were sent to Korea to fight for their lives with only six weeks basic infantry training?

For the past six years this country has been in an international power struggle. Now men are needed to augment our military Strength.

So far the men taken into the armed forces through the Draft Jaw of 1948, one of the most un Richard E. Ward managing editor

democratic pieces of legislation ever foisted upon the young men of America, have been predominantly farmers and laborers. The idea of “deferred’’ responsibility during a shooting war is going to be hard to defend when the history of this era is written.

Never before have brothers been separated from brothers by the criteria of college enrollment and draft test. NSA’s opposition to UMT and their silence on the inequities of the draft law is a pure indictment of this so-called progressive and enlightened youth group.

We need UMT first to make military service truly universal,

and tion trol ing.

second to insure the utilizaof civilian genius and conto guarantee adequate train You are cordially invited to a

MIDWAY 3-4433

Free Lecture on Christian Science

j; entitled “Christian Science: The Understanding J*

I; of Man's Unity With God'9 * J[ by Mrs. Georgina Tennant, of London, England, member of the J [ < * Board of Lectureship of The First Church of Christ, Scientist, in * * Boston, Massachusetts Adjustable Wall Pull-Up Lamp Only $12.95

With finger lip control, a touch of the knob and you have it where you want it. Glides up and down. Swings left or right on polished brass arm. Extends 24" from the wall. Smartly styled 14" metal shade available in jet black, forest green, chalk white or dull brass with fiber glass no-glare diffuser. Takes two bulbs up to 75 walls each.

THURSDAY, APRIL 29, AT 8 P.M

SOCIAL SCIENCE 122

’ t I I < • . .• • • ' Everyone in favor, but no loan

There will be no student owned co-op this year, but not because of lack of support. The Student Interest Committee of the Board of Trustees and the Dean of Students have both come out in favor of the Student Government backed project. Unfortunately, neither the Board of Trustees nor the administration is willing to take the responsibility of initiating the project.

The events leading up to this unusual situation, agreement between representatives of SG, the Board of Trustees, and the administration (and the less unusual situation of no

positive action) are as follows:

In the Autumn Quarter of this year Clive Gray, president of Student Government, went before the Student Interest Committee of the Board of Trustees. He requested that the Board approve the granting of a loan to SG so that a student run cooperative housing project could be purchased.

The Student Interest Committee requested information about cooperative projects at other universities, which Grey promptly furnished. The Committee then voted to back the loan if it came before the Board of Trustees. But the Committee stated that they would not initiate the action. The proposal would have to be brought

before the Board of Trustees by because of the rules of the Board.

the administration, they said.

Grey next brought the matter up before Dean of Students Robert M. Strozier, in orfler to get the administration to initiate the action. Strozier said that he approved of the proposal for a co-op, and he agreed to bring the matter

up

before Chancellor Kimpton.

Arthur

Brown

"Are you now or hove you

ever been o member of the United Stotts Army?"

Policy misunderstood?

Ten days ago at the dinner given in C-group halls for members of the faculty, Chancellor Kimpton made a definite commitment to sign the reaffirmation of the Bill of Rights which has been circulated around the campus during the past week. We would like to know why he has not as yet signed this scroll.

We will summarize briefly just exactly what was said at the dinner concerning this. Chancellor Kimpton was asked what is the general position of university presidents and chancellors on signing petitions, and why he had refused to sign the reaffirmation of the Bill of Rights. He replied that the administration made it a policy not to sign anything circulated on the campus because it was impossible to take the time to read and investigate each of the numerous petitions which were brought to him: that he couldn’t ,recall having seen the scroll, and because of administration policy it probably hadn’t gotten past his secretary.

Several girls immediately ex Kimpton said that he would not rule on the matter directly, but would turn it over to his financial advisers. The financial advisers, headed by William Harrell, Vice President in charge of Business Affairs, expressed doubt that students could manage the project. Thus the administration did not initiate the co op before the Board of Trustees.

The situation now stands with the Dean of Students in favor of the co-op, the Student Interest Committee of the Board of Trustees in favor of the co-op, but with neither willing to initiate discussion of the project. SG, which would be happy to start proceedings, is unable to bring the matter before the Board of Trustees

In this unfortunate circumstance, SG is doing the only thing it can: it is trying to rent living quarters for a co-op. SG hopes that someone will decide to initiate the loan when students prove that they can manage their own building.

plained to him just what it was that he was being asked to sign, why it was being circulated and what they hoped the scroll would accomplish.

As one of the girls present said, “Mr. Kimpton, I don't believe the Bill of Rights will need much investigation.’’

Thereupon Mr. Kimpton said that he could see no reason why he shouldn’t sign this—he was certainly against Mc Carthyism and that if the scroll was brought directly to him he would definitely sign it.

One week later a letter from Dean Strozier to the chairman of the Academic Freedom Week Committee informed us that Mr. Kimpton had decided that there must have been some misunderstanding as to what he said. His policy has been to sign no petitions and he could see no reason why he should change it.

Two puzzled students of Green House

M>e ^/^tt JH PHOTOGRAPHERS

1171 EAST 55th STREET

Herman9;

•35 E. 55th St. Midway 3-6700

Episcopals move service to Swift

Closed for repairs since Easter ^ Day, Bond Chapel, where the Episcopal Church communion services are usually held, will not be open this Sunday. The services will be held in Swift Hall Common Room, . in the building next to Bond on the north.

The services remain scheduled for 8:30 a.m., and other events such as the breakfast are unchanged.

Mystery solved; no one pleased

A mystery of two watches advertised in the MAROON may be cleared up as a result of minor differences detected on the time pieces.

Two weeks ago the MAROON classified columns carried an ad about a man's Bulova watch that had been lost. The same issue carried another ad about a man's Bulova watch that had been found.

But the happiness of the loser at spotting the other ad was shortlived. It wasn’t his watch after all.

Loser Fred Solomon found that the recovered watch was the same make and model as his but it had yellow gold and had initials engraved on it. Solomon’s watch is white gold and has no initials.

Meanwhile the watch that was found is waiting for its owner at the information desk in the administration building.

The watch that Solomon lost is still missing, and the owner would appreciate it if anyone who finds it calls him at DOrchester 3-8017.

DOC FILM

RANCHO NOTORIOUS

with

Marlene Dietrich

TONIGHT

Soc. Sci. 122—7:30 & 9:30

Admission 50c

JO BANKS Creative Photography 6457 Cottage Grove MU 4-7365 April 23, 1954

THE CHICAGO MAROON

Pag# 5

WUCB plans expansion

INT House gets transmitter

WUCB, the University’s student radio station, has announced plans for future expansion, which will include installation of a new transmitter at International House.

John Lyon, WUCB station manager, stated that arrangements for construction of the transmitter have already been completed, and that operation is expected to begin in the coming fall quarter. Cbmpletion of the International House transmitter will leave only Gates-Blake and Hitchcock Snell dormitories not included in the WUCB network. The next station project will be to expand its facilities to cover these areas.

When the International House transmitter is completed, the potential listening audience of WUCB will be increased to 1100 persons. The new transmitter will be capable of reproducing the entire frequency range of the high fidelity broadcasting done by WUCB. In addition to the present studio location in B-J, many new programs will originate directly from International House.

In addition to the new equipment, WUCB is also making an attempt to rebroadcast FM station WFMT.

Permission has been granted by WFMT and the only remaining step is to have the WUCB antenna moved. This would add to the already expanded WUCB program schedule which includes “Perspective,” a general news analysis, and “Wheel of Fortune,” a documentary history of the work of vocalist Kay Starr. Other recent additions to the WUCB program list are “The Jeffersonian Heritage,” a series of 13 dramatizations of the life and thought

Make your own proving ground" test

. and we knew this is what you’ll find

The new 1954 Chevrolet Bel Air 4-door sedan. With 3 great series, Chevrolet offers the most beautiful choice of model* in its field.

You can easily tell the difference between engines when you drive— and the difference is all in Chevrolet’s favor! That’s because Chevrolet’s great engines deliver full horsepower where it counts— on the road. What Chevrolet promises, Chevrolet delivers!

Chevrolet is out ahead in powerful performance

Chevrolet is out ahead in economy

There’s new power, new performance and new economy in both 1954 Chevrolet engines—the “Blue-Flame 125” in Powerglide models and the “Blue-Flame 115” in gearshift models. And they bring you the highest compression ratio of any leading low-priced car. That’s wliy they can deliver a big gain in power, acceleration and all-around performance, along with important gasoline savings!

Year after year more people buy Chevrolet than any other carl

Your test car** ready now. •, We’ll be glad to have you compare the smooth, quiet performance of this new Chevrolet with any other car in its field. Come in and put it through any kind at ‘‘proving ground” test you care to, and judge its performance for yourself. Your test car’s ready now and we hope you are, too.

SEE YOUR CHEVROLET DEALER FOR ALL YOUR AUTOMOTIVE NEEDS!

Conveniently listed under "Automobiles” in your local classified telephone directory ‘

of the author of the Declaration of Independence, and “The Ways

of Mankind,” an introduction cultural anthropology.

to

Qold cup, books, prizes in contest by Camera Club

The Camera Club sponsored its annual photo contest Wednesday night in Eckhart 202. This competition, which was open to all University students, attracted approximately 60 entries in divisions for both black and white and colored photos.

Judges for the contest were Harold Hayden, associate professor of humanities in the college, and James Glaze, head of the photographic department of Billings Hospital. Prints were judged on the basis of technical proficiency in reproduction, the quality of the finished prints, and their overall composition.

Winners in each division were awarded gold cups for their first place efforts. Second and third prize winners received sets of photography books presented by the University Bookstore.

All prints are on display in the Reynold’s Club Lounge for a full week beginning yesterday.

Shugg given press post

The new executive editor of the University Press will be Roger W. Shugg. Shugg will be in charge of the editorial and financial operations of the press and will work under Morton Grodzins who stays on as editor.

Shugg had previously been director of Rutgers University Press. He had also been an assistant professor of history at Indiana University and then an associate professor of history at Princeton University.

Following this he became the editor and manager of the college department of Alfred A. Knopf, Inc?

Lost and Found full, urge student inquiry

Many articles including keys, watches, pens and umbrellas have been left unclaimed at the University Lost and Found Office. Located at the Administration Building’s information desk, the Lost and Found Office has also acquired quantities of textbooks, glasses, clothes and jewelry in its backlog. Mrs. R. Thompson, director of the information desk, advises students to inquire about lost articles first at the Lost and Found, rather than relying on bulletin boards and department offices.

Because of lack of space, all articles are held at the desk for only thirty days. At the end of thirty days books are turned over to the Student Book Exchange, and clothing placed in a backlog. Twice a year the backlog is removed by a rummage sale, the profits of which go to the Lab School.

Calvert Club to sponsor Jesuit's lecture on belief

The Reverend Martin C. D’Arcy of the Society of Jesuits will speak on “The Nature of Belief” in Breasted Hall, Oriental Institute, Thursday at 8 p.m. Father D’Arcy is the author of such books as The Idea of God, Catholicism, and Thoma# Aquinas. He was made Master of Campion Hall in 1933 and thus headed the first Catholic college to be affiliated as an

Rev. Martin D'Arcy, S.J.

Meds to pen

The Pre-Med Club is sponsoring a trip to the Illinois State Prison at Statesville, Illinois, Sunday, May 2.

The bus will leave campus at noon. Anyone wishing to go may contact W. R. Wison at 713. Burton-Judson and pay the $1 fare by Wednesday, A few seats are available for non-members.

integral school of the University of Oxford since the Reformation.

Holder of honorary degrees from Georgetown, Fordham, Marquette, and the National University of Ireland, Father D’Arcy was characterized in “The Great Faces of Oxford,” Vogue (July, 1950) as, “True to the tradition of his society equally at home in the works of St. Thomas Aquinas and in the Festspielhaus at Salzburg; he can preach politics to the statesman or Christian doctrine to the believer with equal force and knowledge ”

Father D’Arcy’s lecture at Breasted Hall is sponsored by the Calvert Club, Catholic student organization on campus. He will present a lecture, “The Nature of Love” at the Loyola Community Theatre, Friday, April 30. sponsored by Loyola University.

Passover Pageant presented at party

The last of the Passover activities this year at the Hillel Foundation, 5715 Woodlawn, will be a party tomorrow at 8:30 p.m. in honor of the newly elected Hillel officers. Among the events planned is an original play by Gunther Heilbrunn, “Exodus” or “How Moses Got Out of a Tight Spot Without Making an Absolute

Plonk of Himself,” will be presented.

Leading roles will be dramatized by Aryeh Motzkin, Hershel Marks. Joyce Allen. Bernie Springer, and Elaine Pomper. The play in five acts is historically inaccurate.

Co-op housing

(from page I) legal standards.

Even more important, Gray continued, was the fact that the hotel contained central kitchen facilities, which could be made available to a students’ eating cooperative. Food costs for the 140 students on the floor would thus be cut to the minimum level.

Gray stated that the second floor would be reserved entirely for men students, but that a smaller number of women students could be accommodated on another floor in the hotel under the same financial arrangements, if enough women students showed an interest in the project.

Dean of Students Robert M. Strozier stated that if the cooperative were a success it might be possible for the administration to give the project positive aid. “And by positive aid, I mean financial aid,” concluded Strozier.

WHERE THE U of C MEETS TO EAT Gc Umi’4

W FINE FOOD 1321 East 57th Street

1367 E. 57th St.

THE RECORD OF THE WEEK

Mozart

Piano Concertos No. 23 and No. 24 Clifford Curzon Josef Krips

LL 918 $5.95 
 April 23, 1954

THE CHICAGO MAROON

Page 7

Student work dominates Review Warm nights bring out 'hoods';

The spring-summer issue of the Chicago Review, on sale May 10, will tip the balance of student and non-student writing to favor students’ works. Over three-quarters of the contributors to the new Review are students.

police chief advises precautions

In the eight years since the founding of the Review, the proportion of student to non-student works has increased with each passing year. Twenty-eight students have been contributors this year, the largest number of student contributors in Review history.

Student authors named 

Among the stories, poems, reviews and essays in the new Review will be selections by students Irwin Schulman, Jamie Redfield, Donald Levine, Edward Barksdale, James Flinn, Robert Turner, Virginia Wolcott and Dave Nelson. The faculty members whose works will appear are Joe Gusfield, Charles Hartshorne and Manuel Bilski.

In addition to works produced by UC students and faculty, the Review also publishes writings by non-campus authors, both littleknown and famous. Works by William Carlos Williams and Nikos Kanzantzakis, author of “Zor The Chicago Review’s circulation, numbering in the thousands, and which this year is larger than that of any proceeding year, extends beyond the the university to areas as Mexico, many, England,

boundaries of include such France, Gerthe Marshall

ba the

translated by

Kimon Friar, will appear in the spring-summer issue. The enw issue will also feature sketches by artist Paul Klee and a rare photograph of the Gerfnan philosopher, Wichtenstein.

Review representative

"The Review is not hampered in the selection of its material by a rigid format,” stated "Chip” Karmatz, editor. "The divisions of the Review, fiction, essay, poetry, and book reviews are extremely plastic and are not hampered by any fixed quotas. The magazine attempts to represent all kinds of fiction and non-fiction cohering a wide variety of subjects. Consequently, there is no necessity to pad the sections, as is the case with many other publications. The Review is free to discard any section if there is not sufficient good

Islands, and every state in the United States. Among the more recent subscribers to the Review is the library of San Quentin prison in California.

Staff votes on manuscripts

“Works are chosen solely on the basis of merit,” stated Karmatz. “Although we consciously attempt to act as a vehicle for the publication of good student work, quality, not name of author, is our only criterion for choosing works for publication. Each one of the twenty staff members has the opportunity to vote upon which manuscripts will -be published and to voice his opinion upon each of the works submitted. To each manuscript is attached a sheet of paper upon which the staff write their criticisms, which may be anything from a brief philosophical dissertation on aesthetics to the terse comment, "No! This one belongs in Jack and Jill!”

"Students are connected with every aspect of the production of the magazine, as contributors, as production managers, as solicitors

picture by Al Jonger.

"Chip" Karmatz, Review editor, appears with a stack of new Reviews.

for manuscripts and advertisements, and as salesmen. Unlike any other UC organizations, the Review, although of professional quality, is totally staffed by students.”

material to fill that section.”

Review second largest of type

More poets are published in few issues each year of the

the Re

view than are published in any other magazine, including Poetry Magazine. The Review is the second largest magazine of its type in the country, exceeded in circulation only by the Partisan Review.

Thompson sings; Obety trombones

Robert Thompson, basso, and John Obety, trombone, will present a recital in the Alpha Delta Phi house, 5747 University, Sunday at 3 p.m. Thompson will present arias by Handel, Verdi, Gilbert and Sullivan, Mendelssohn, and Wagner. Obety will play Haydn, Shostakovich, Corelli. No admission will be charged.

Review Staff Members: Jane Mc Williams, Bob Quinn,

Byrna Bailin,

and "Chip" Karmatz, Editor.

picture by Al Janger

ACASA Book Store

CHOICE USED BOOKS New Lot Just Arrived

(iuurun teed typewriter repair service

1117 E. 55th St

IIY 3-9651

NO 7-907) HYDE PARK IIIEATKE l*^™™

Starting Friday, April 23

ROME, 11 O'CLOCK

A new masterpiece by the director of "Bitter Rice", the producer of Devil in the Flesh", and the author of "Bicycle Thief".

“An extraordinary amount of sex appeal"—Time Mag "it fascinates throughout"—AY Times

— also —

100 MEN AND A GIRL

Selected for re-showing for its nostalgic, musical, and sheer entertainment values. With Deanna Durbin, Adolph Menjou, Leopold Stokowski, and Mischa Auer.

Coming: Gilbert and Sullivan and Noel-Noel's Spice of Life

Student Rate 50c All Performances If You Present Your ID Card at the Bozo Hke

by Warren Roy Spachner

Pleasantly warm nights, poorly lighted streets in the University neighborhood, and more people out on the streets at night can mean only one thing — an increase in the crime rate.

The warm weather brings out not only the decent citizens who are merely after a little fresh air but also the hoodlums or gansters looking for some easy money.

These hoodlums specialize in street crimes (assault, robberies, rapes, auto and bicycle thefts and the like). These "hoods” usually operate in the darker, morb poorly lit streets because it is easier to hide there.

Their victims or intended victims are usually people who are out walking by themselves. But if a gang of “hoods” is large enough they might even attack a group.

Statistics show that these hoodlums range in age from 14 to 18. They very seldom operate alone but usually in gangs of from three to six members. These gangs cannot be said to be either predominantly white or predominantly colored. When armed, they carry some kind of a club or blackjack, knives, and sometimes they carry guns. The blackjacks are usually either lead pipes or socks filled with something heavy like gravel.

Light-meter readings taken in

various parts of Ch’cago point up the fact that street lighting in the University area is some of the poorest to be found anywhere in Chicago. The Midway, 59th and 60th streets are the most poorly lit of all.

Until such time as improvements occur, Tony Eidsen, chief of the campus police, suggests that students pay attention to safety precautions. “Do not walk the streets alone at night. If you must cross the Midway, cross only streets like Woodlawn or Ellis which are lighted and patrolled. Do not use, except.at your own risk, the cross walks between these streets.

“If you must go out at night be sure to tell someone that you are going out, how long you expect to be gone, and if possible, where you are going. Most important of all, do not carry large sums of money with you. Carry only what is necessary.”

Top ten express views

(from page 1)

ers, is best equipped to represent our students and bring them NSA’s benefits all year, rather than merely to contribute to making the summer Congress more lively by protests about the world situation.”

Continuing ISL's po 'J n that the party’s previous i Jences in former congresses entitles it to reelection, Monica Kazasa emphasized the role of the UC delegation at the convention. She said:

“I believe that the most important issue in the NSA election campaign is the effectiveness of the UC delegation to the NSA Congress this summer. Both parties would support a liberal program. However, since ISL delegates have had experience at the NSA Congresses for five years and are active leaders in the Association, they would be able to work vigorously and effectively for the adoptio of their program.”

On the other side, SRP candidate Karl Rodman emphasized the contribution of the two political groups to the academic freedom week activities. In expressing his personal qualifications for election, Rodman stated;

“My personal qualification for election is close contact with NSA activities in the field of academic freedom, having been chairman of Chicago’s Academic Freedom Week and NSA’s regional academic freedom sub-ccmmission.

“The SRP delegat.on has prepared to take with them a complete record of Chicago’s academic freedom activities and will work to have NSA sponsor a truly national week in 1955. *

“If the campus feels that last week’s activities were worthwhile, they should send a delegation which worked on and is well acquainted with all' aspects of our week, rather than one which

consistently deprecated it ‘maningless’ and took no part the activities whatsoever.”

CONTINENTAL

as in

Another issue which SRP candidates consider important was brought out by Dick Ward, an independent running w it h SRP backing. He centered his argument on the party platform dealing with the exchange of students with other countries. He noted the failure of sue ha program al last year’s congress:

"I believe thatone of the most important issues of this campaign is that of international student exchange. Both parties have stated that they are in favor of student exchange with ‘all’ countries. Last year a resolution reaffirming this principle failed the NSA Congress by only seven votes. The objectors to this resolution opposed it mainly on the basis that it was impossible to travel between such nations as the US and Soviet Union. My recent trip to the USSR has essentially refuted these arguments.

“It now seems logical to me for the NSA to invite a group of Soviet students to this country and also to explore the possibilities of widening student contact with the USSR. This would be a very positive step for decreasing present day international tensions.”

Jan Metros chose to speak for ISL on the same topic of international exchange of students. She outlined her position on her qualifications by noting her previous work in organizations dedicated to this and other problems and in her experience in SG. She told the MAROON that:

“I feel that it is important to have a transmission of ideas With students throughout this country. NSA is a body which can accomplish this. I am very interested in two points of my platform: Fair Educational Practices Act and the foreign exchange program and have worked in various organizations whose main purpose was to work for these points. If elected I will do my best to further the ideals set forth by these in the

convention. After working in the government for a year and seeing both parties operate, I know that ISL is better equipped to put its platform, which I back, into action and for this reason I choose to run on the ISL ticket.”

Larry Lichtenstein, SRP candidate, limited his statement to an explanation of his abilities as a candidate. He went on to discuss the duties of a student to his society and the dangers to mocracy:

‘‘My interest in student is an unusual thing. It is with what I consider to role as a student and as a

our depolitics tied up be my citizen.

I have taken from this society and its educational system and I feel bound to give back to it in what ways I am able. I am deeply disturbed by the current trends in American education and the threat these present to democracy —the democracy which has to a very real extent created me.

“What I want to do is fight this danger. I have had some experience as a NSA delegate last year and two years in Student Government. My chief abilities, however, lie simply in the fact that I am a student and a citizen.”

This election has also produced an independent candidate. Phillip Wyatt has stated that in running as an independent candidate, he has freed himself from the confines of party discipline and party machinery. He further explains his views on UMT, the Michigan Plan, foreign exchange, and economic burdens of students. He said:

“I choose to enter the race for national delegate as an independent candidate for three reasons: 1) I believe that my views on the important issues at stake will better represent the average UC student at the NSA convention than those of a regimented party member. 2) I do not like to sit by placidly as machine politics attempt to intimidate a student body. 3 > Our campus needs more

Gour’”®*

RESTAURANT

1508 E. 57th (Corner Lake Park)

"Shash-l Ak" a Specialty

independent candidates for office than has been in the past.

‘‘The important issues

-views on them are as

running the case

and my follows:

1) UMT—someday we shall have peace in this world and UMT legislation written on the books shall be a difficult thing to remove. We must therefore do all in our power to help defeat its ever being placed there. 2) Michigan Plandiscrimination in fraternity constitutions must be eliminated. However, fraternities have been with us for a long time. We cannot hope to change them overnight, but we should direct our efforts to accomplishing this within the Page 8

THE CHICAGO MAROON

April 23, 1994

Paul Robeson to appear in Mandel

Paul Robeson, the widely acclaimed Negro actor and basso will present a concert of art songs, arias, folk songs, hymns and spirituals May 8, at 8:30 p.m. in Mandel Hall. His final program has not yet been announced.

Class valedictorian and Phi Betta Kappa at Rutgers, besides being a 4-letter man and twice an All American end, Robeson started at the Columbia Law School, but became interested in dramatics and finally starred in a revival of O’Neill’s “Emperor Jones.” When Jones is lost in the jungle he is supposed to whistle to keep up his spirits. Robeson’s whistling apparently left something to be desired, so he sang instead, and was so successful that only two years later he made his first concert appearance in Greenwich Village,

N. Y.

A long line of successes followed in America, England and Europe, and have continued ever since, along with stage performances, particularly in “Othello,” and USO tours. Recently, however, he has been restricted from performing in many places and has been denied a passport because of his views.

Lawrence Brown, accompanist for Robeson for many years, studied music in Boston, and later went to London where he studied

composition with Alec Rowley and Miss Ira Aldridge. He toured with Roland Hayes for four years in England and on the continent, and joined Robeson in 1925, accompanying him in his first recital and in concerts ever since.

Brown is well known for his research in Negro music, and for his numerous arrangements, such as “Joshua Fit de Battle of Jericho,” “Steal Away,’.’ “Swing Low, Sweet Chariot,” “Li’l David” and “Ezekiel Saw de Wheel.”

According to a spokesman for the Student Representative Party,

which is sponsoring the concert, “The only basis on which we should decide Robeson’s appearance here, in a respected concert hall, should be that of his undisputed artistic excellence. Robeson is coming here to sing, not to give a political lecture. We do not believe that Mc Carthyism should be allowed to tell us what artists we can hear and appreciate.”

Tickets, pric<“d at $1 general admission and $1.50, reserved seats are available at the SG Ticket Agency or by writing SRP, 5706 University.

Joel Seidman writes

produces competent

'/American Labor from Defense to Reconversion,” by Joel Seidman. UC Press. 1954.

Organized labor in America deserves more serious consideration from the American liberal than it has recently received. In an era of pious contentment with the status quo, self-satisfied talk of past achievement. labor-management “cooperation” in fighting the witchmenace and Joe Mc Carthy, if they are to justify their not-very-noticeable existence, liberals might well

history of American labor's role; account of specific crisis issues

Rockefeller carillon recital

to honor St. George's day

This Sunday, the regular Rockefeller Chapel carillon concert will consist of a group of contemporary and traditional pieces selected to commemorate St. George’s Day. Members of the British Consulate General including the recently appointed Consul General, Mr. Robert Whyte Mason, together with members of the English-Speaking Union, will be guests

of the Chapel for the recital.

Among the contemporary works will be a composition by James R. Lawson, Chapel carilloneur, composed when he was

liam Blake’s “Jerusalem,” and finally “God Save the Queen.”

The carillon, under fair weather conditions, can be heard throughout the University area.

devote some time to deciding just what their goals are.

Joel Seidman, assistant professor of social science at UC, has written a history of the war-time and reconversion role of labor, “American Labor from Defense to Reconversion, which offers an interesting chronological account of government labor policy and the activities of unions from pre-war defense mobilization to the passage of the Taft-Hartley Act. Professor Seidman’s book is of particular interest to those who have formed their impressions of that period through the press of more recent years.

Labor, on the basis of Professor Seidman’s evidence, can hardly be said to have made earthshaking advances during the period covered. Such governmental decisions as the “Little Steel” formula, at best kept wages close to rising prices, rather than using the favorable war-time situation to significantly improve the future position of workingmen.Such wartime innovations as FECP, were junked at the conclusion of the crisis by a Congress which apparently conceived of the four

freedoms as mere tools to be used in advancing foreign policy.

Seidman is a dull writer; one soon tires of his frequent use of such constructions as “partly because and partly because.” Often, he refers to something called “public opinion” which is described as holding a specific viewpoint. Exactly how this was determined is not mentioned, nor is there any adequate discussion of the relative importance of labor and management biases in the reporting of the issues to the public, which would seem essential if “public opinion” is to be an important factor in the settlement of industrial disputes, as Seidman feels it is.

From Seidman’s account oge receives the impression of a tremendously influential and militant anti-unionism, continuing in intensity throughout the war and affecting not only employers, but at times governmental officials of considerable importance, a picture varying widely from the common conception of that era in popular media. The Taft-Hartley Act, which is briefly treated, is, Seidman feels,, the outcome of a long fight to control and destroy the labor movement. He feels that the behavior of labor leaders of the John L. Lewis type “helped form the climate of opinion in which the Taft-Hartley Act was possible.” One wonders whether this is not giving too much credence to the rationalizations of supporters of the act, who would probably magnify even the most innocuous actions of labor leaders into national calamities worthy of immediate solution by restrictive legislation.

There are few original formulations or insights into the labor problems of a democratic society in Seidman’s book, but it is a most competent account of the specific issues of the defense crisis. Many of the problems suggested in the work are, to this reviewer, insoluble except within a broad political framework, a fact which Mc Carthyism if nothing else, should daily demonstrate t o unionists and liberals, who are the ultimate targets of its attack. •

Paul Breslow

studying change-ringing in England. Mr. Lawson who is a member of the Sussex County Association of Change Ringers and author of a forthcoming book on bells, based the composition, “Big Ben Fantasia,” on the Westminster chime tune of the Clock Tower, Houses of Parliament.

Among the other works are compositions by .Selwyn Baker, Dominion carilloneur for New Zealand; Clifford Ball, carilloneur of the Bourneville Village school; Robert Donnell, Dominion Carilloneur for Canada; and a work by Sir Hamilton Harty, composed for the Sydney University Carillon, Sydney. Australia.

The recital will close with a selection of songs and national airs from England which will include: “Rule Brittania,” “Land of Hope and Glory” by Sir Edward Elgar, “God Bless the Prince of Wales,” Sir Hubert Parry’s setting of Wil Arrow Sports Shirts Hailed Inter-Collegiate Champs!

Look! all the colors.

and patterns you want...

CLARK THEATRE

• Clark at Madison

SPRING FILM

FESTIVAL

Sunday, May 2, through Sunday, May 16

The delightful story of a gent who went on a wild weekend with his fast-moving first loved named

Dinah Sheridan • Kay Kendall ' John Gregson

in technicolor

Today ot;

6 30. 8:15. 10:00

Ot ARBONN Al DIVISION

Students presenting their 10 cards at box office will be admitted for £0c any week night. Saturdays •nd Sundays until 5 p.m.

in Arrow

Sports Shirts

•*e

Once again, Arrow sports shirts have beat out all competition and won the title of campus champions. Winners on two counts style and comfort . • . these champion sports shirts are now available at all Arrow dealers.

ARROW

 TRADE® MARK

-— SHIRTS • TIES • UNDERWEAR • KANDK1RCHIIFS • SPORTSWEAR

We have the right Arrow sports shirt for every pair of slacks in your wardrobe. Come, take your pick of our smart selection - checks,"* plaids,* solid colors in every fabric end color you need, f And they're 1 all WASHABLE. Stop In today ^yr-i and (•• how Arrows can spark your loaf life/

7::

:::

checks plaids solids

$500 up

£kicago - Eva Mton - Oek Park - Gary . Joliet - Alton ii^HJ< k Am C.a.v April 23, 1954

K

THE CHICAGO MAROON

UT offers three one-act dramas;

Page 9

final production of spring season

As its final production of this season, University Theater is preparing a program of oneact diamas lor presentation May 6, 7, and 8, to be repeated the following weekend of May 14-16.

Edna St. \ incent Millay’s Aria da Capo, Box and Cox, and The Shy and Lonely by Irwin Shaw make up the three-point program. Two new direetprs are being introduced to UT audiences. Eddie Simmons, who acted last season with the Showcase Theater of Evanston, is directing The Shy and Lonely,

and Barry Sherman, seen last quarter as Shawn in the UT production of Playboy, is directing Aria da Capo.

The play offers a diversity of styles, including the farce and •parody of Box and Cox, a sample of poetic “license” in Aria da Capo, and the contemporary realism of Irwin Shaw.

Aria da ( apo was written by Edna St. Vincent Millay for the Provincetown Players. The story, a counterbalancing of superficiality and allegorical values, is offered in a play-wit hina play form. The pastel, Watteau-like figures of Pierrot and Columbine serve as a contrasting frame-work for the mocksimple story of a game of life that soon grows too serious. Of several dramatic works by poetess Millay, Aria da Capo has had the most success.

Box and Cox, the perennial British farce, may be remembered by some as it was presented by UT in 1947 with the Hibbs and Reifler team of Reno gambling fame. The play, now in its second century as a favorite curtain-raiser and interlude piece, is considered the one drama classic to come out of England in the nineteenth certtury. Gilbert and Sullivan added a musical score to John Morton's piece and turned it into Cox and Box, in which form it has been a longstanding success in the repertory of the D’oyly Carte company. In sty le and language the play was probably a model for Wilde’s Im[ Science on exhibit

portance of Being Earnest Otis Imboden is directing.

Irwin Shaw won a reputation as one of America’s most promising playwrights with his dramas The Gentle People and Bury the Dead. Since the 1940s,

however, Bury the pressures France.

he has withdrawn Dead due to political and is now living in

lege graduate’s struggle to establish his identity. The confusion of social pressures and> sexual impulses lead him into a chaotic attempt on the virtue of a girl who is unable to understand his conflict.

UT is returning to arena staging for this presentation. Curtain time is 8:30 in the Reynolds Club studio theatre. Tickets for

Todoy a 8:30 p.m. in Mandel Hall, University Concerts will present the New Art Wind Quintet, including Melvin Kaplan, oboe, Andrew Lolyo, flute, Irving Nedich, clarinet, Tino Di Dario, bassoon and Earl Chapin, horn. The program features quintets by Danzi and Schoenberg, a quartet by Rossini and "Trois pieces breves" by Ibert. The group was • formed in 1947 in order to perform the extensive but little-known woodwind literature.

The Shy and Lonely concerns the problems of late adolescence. Set in a summer camp for adults, the story stems from a young colthe production

Monday at Center in basement.

the the

will be on sale Student Service Reynolds Club

Oberlin choir brightens Mandel hall

A good college choir is almost as rare (present company excepted) as a dry April in Chicago, and it was refreshing to hear the Oberlin Choir's concert last Monday, which seemed about as good as one could wish. Conducted by Robert Fountain, they sing with excellent intonation and a precision which would do credit to

any professional group.

Since the tour came during Holy Week, the program was almost entirely sacred, and mostly from the sixteenth century. However it was well chosen and included among others the “Agnus Dei” of Thomas Morley, with an interesting pedal point near the end, and J very

The program closed, however, with three negro spirituals: “Were you there,” “Mary wore three links of chain” and “Ezekiel saw de wheel,” which were sung exceptionally well and with much spirit. The singing of Richard Bowles, who also sang the tenor solo in the Cantata, and Marvyne Betsch is to be commended.

About the only lapses in the program were the Bach and the Brahms, which was sung a bit apathetically, particularly what was described in the program notes as the “vigorous third movement”; however this may have been the effects of the tour, and certainly the spirituals and the lively and charming “Petit Nymphe Folatre” of Francois Regnard were done with plenty of spirit. In general, although the program somewhat resembled a church service, the music was excellently performed, and the Student Union Club committee may be complimented on a fine choice.

Robert Blocl

moving work called Lamentation” by Weelkes.

The largest work was tata No. 23 (“Thou Very

“David’s

Thomas

the Can God and

Bach Passion given creditable performance; deficiencies in text hamper effect of work

David’s Son”) by Bach, which featured a small orchestra composed of strings, oboes and piano. Unfortunately it was performed in almost the same character as the Catholic music which preceded it, and it lacked the vigor and humanism which make it so characteristic of the early Protestant church.

More recent works included

the like

the

songs by Francois Poulenc, first sounding remarkably the sixteenth century muand the second rather like Stravinsky of the Sym Considering the $2 tariff for April llth’s performance, Rockefeller Chapel played host to a prodigious number of guests to enjoy its Palm Sunday offering of Bach s Passion According to Saint John.” However, the UC Choir distinguished itself as usual, supported by a formidable array of orchestral instruments recruited from the Chicago Symphony Orchestra.

The St. John Passion was Bach’s first, and was probably premiered in 1724, only two or three years after Leipzig heard its first “concerted” passion, by Kuhnau, breaking the Catholic tradition which had re An exhibition entitled “The Artist Looks at the Scientist’s World,” composed of research drawings and equipment from the nation’s laboratories, will open this Monday at the Goodspeed Hall galleries of the Renaissance Society.

phony of Psalms; an imitation of Brahms by Georg Schumann, who died in 1918; a chorus by Brahms himself, a sort of theme and variations which sounded rather like a counterpoint exercise, and a work by George OI<1royd (1886- ) which was hardly more than a choral arrangement of an imitation folk song.

mained unchanged after the Reformation. The text apparently caused the composer some trouble. The choice of the St. John version is strange, unless Bach was specifically directed to it, for as a whole the libretto is poorly constructed and lacking in dramatic effect, and its two parts are unbalanced.

The textual deficiencies were rather noticeable in the UC choir's performance, and seemed to be aggravated by poor translations. The music, however, is some of Bach’s best, which compensates for the libretto. It is strong, almost earthy

Socialist Party

Meeting for Members and Friends

MAY DAY ACTIVITIES

music of the Protestant movement, and is much nearer the people, steeped as it is in contemporary folk music, which included Lutheran hymns.

Certain sections reach high dramatic peaks; for instance the cries of the people to crucify Jesus. Here again, however, the text seriously hampers the effect, for as beautiful as is the music, there is no progression, and the climaxes are isolated and ineffective.

The tenor, who played the extensive part of the Evangelist, John Toms, must be particularly congratulated on his execution of a great number of recitatives and a few very moving arias. Andrew Foldi, the bass, and Bernard Izzo, baritone, were also excellent, but the other soloists were only adequate, and the soprano less than tha L The solos of Florian Mueller and Jerry Sirucek, the oboes, and Julius Klein, the viola da gamba, were very well played.

The choir acquitted itself creditably, with only minor mishaps, except that some of the choruses, such as the first and the one dealing with the rending of the cloak, which have an insistent rhythmic

pattern, were mechanically performed. We may look forward to the Mass in B Minor on May 23, which is in Latin.

DFG to show

British document

Tuesday the Documentary Film Group will present two recent documentaries, Waters of Time and El Dorado, directed by Basil Wright and John Grierson. Both Wright and Grierson have played prominent roles in the development of the British documentary film and have outstanding lists of films to their credit.

John Grierson, who got an MA in social sciences^rom this University in the middle '30s, organized the famous EMB and GPO film units, groups which produced such films as Drifters, Song of Ceylon, Night Mail, Coal Face, Workers and Jobs, and Wealth of a Nation. Basil Wright, working in these units, developed a penetrating and succinct style, as in the notable Song of Ceylon.

The showings are at 7:15 and 9:30 p.m. in Soc. Sci. 122. Admission is 50 cents.

ELECTION OF LOCAL OFFICERS

NATIONAL CONVENTION

Social to Follow

MEETING AT IDA

i Thursday April 29

Meeting

NOYES HALL

7:30 P.M. ‘

International House IMovie Program

Assembly Holl, Monday and Thursday Evenings at 8:00 P.M.

. Admission 35c

Monday, April 26 — NEW GULLIVER < Russian) Thursday, April 29 — FOUNTAINHEAD (American)

MORE FUN THAN A BARREL!

Rock with Laughter or Simply Smile! , The choice is yours with SHAFT HUMOR MAGAZINE!

Intrigue! “The Voluptuous Hoax!"

Tickling! "Sidney The Continental!" And a Complete Ernest Hemingbird Novel!

GET THE "HOT SPRING!" ISSUE of SHAFT at THE U of C BOOKSTORE Page 10

THE CHICAGO MAROON

April 23, 1954

Sailors get fourth place as boats fall

by Al Fortier

Amid a flurry of capsizings, the UC sailing team manged to keep enough above water to finish fourth out of five at the University of Michigan last weekend in its first regatta of the season. Of the ten top teams scheduled to compete, only five showed up. Michigan beat out Michigan State for the top berth, followed by Wisconsin, UC, and Detroit.

The meet, marked by chilly weather and moderately high, gusty winds, saw four boats capsize in the chilly water. Shortly after storm sails were bent on as a safety measure, Wisconsin's team capsized. Just before the start of the next race Ells Mc Clenachan continued the tradition of Chicago Commodores, and splashed into the lake with Crew Dotty Hess.

Detroit topples twice

Detroit, not to be outdone by the Windy City crew, promptlycapsized twice. Meanwhile Bob Baron managed to keep his tender DT dinghy on top of the water to keep the UC team out of last place in the top event of the season.

Tomorrow the Midway Mariners play host to local rivals IIT and Northwestern at Columbia Yacht Club for the Illinois State championship. This will be the first home event of the three teams this season. With Northwestern rumored to be using freshmen and IIT little better than last season, when Chicago beat them in both contests, the UCers look like a good bet to win.

Others capsize but not these hardy UC sailors. They managed to guide their craft through the wavy water at Ann Arbor, Michigan, to place fourth. However, shortly after this picture wras taken, two crewmen, Ellis Mc Clenachen and Dotty Hess slid off the slippery deck into the chilly- water.

Intramural play at peak; playoff games next week

by Spike Pinney

This week marks about the middle of spring intramural play; volleyball is ending, softball began yesterday; and golf and tennis play are scheduled to start soon.

Teams representing college, divisional, and fraternity houses had their first opportunity to flex their muscles when volleyball play began in early April. Games in three leagues went on almost every afternoon upstairs in Bartlett.

Mothews clinches first

League standings with two place in the college league and Beecher first in the divisional circuit. Running behind Mathews, 14-1 record were Coulter, 12-3; Mead, 10-5; and Linn, 5-10. Vincent and Salisbury also played. The three teams following Beecher’s 13-2 high w'ere Hitchcock and the Divinity School with identical 9-3 records; and Argonne Hospital, 5-7.

Today is the final day of play, and next Tuesday Mathews and the divisional champs will stage a playoff. Winner of this game will meet the fraternity house leader in a glittering all-Midway intramural volleyball championship game.

Psi U leading frats

Fraternity standings with two days of play to go indicated that

days of competition remaining

Psi U would repeat in that league. Behind their 11-1 mark came Phi Sigma Delta, 10-2; Phi Gamma Delta, 84; and ZBT, 7-5. Next Thursday w-ill see the playoff between the final leader here and the college-divisional playoff winner.

Volleyball players switch to softball in the three intramural leagues from this week until late in May. Games will be played on north field and the field behind BJ up until May 20. Anyone wishing to officiate at games should report to intramural director Kooman Boycheff at Bartlett. A generous fee is offered for competent umpiring.

Tennis has dual competition

Two types of tennis competition

Your Wings are your Passport

saw Mathews in certain first are scheduled this spring. Regular league tennis similar to volleyball and softball will begin next week. In this competition each house will be represented by two players. In matches they will oppose the other team in singles first, and, if the two teams split, in doubles to decide the match. The other type of competition is strictly individual medalist tournament play. So far eleven men have signed up for the tournament singles play, and four teams for the doubles competition. Boycheff is hoping for more doubles entries in the tournament which begins next week. All faculty members, employees, and students of the University are eligible.

An all-University tournament in See "Golf and Tennis," page 1 I

New community pattern discussed

“Community Organization — a New Pattern,” will be the next topic in the Wednesday night lecture series of the Education Committee of the International House Council. Mrs. Marjorie Andrews of the public relations committee of the Hyde Park-Kenwood Community Conference will sho w films and slides and discuss how neighbors live and work together in an inter-racial community.

The program, which will take place Wednesday at 8 p.m. in the East Lounge of International House, wil Ibe followed by discussion.

The Chicago Urban League will be represented with a panel of two speakers on May 5. A representative of the Chicago Commission on Human Relations will speak May 12.

Cramming for Exams? Fight “Book Fatigue” Safely

Your doctor will tell you — a No Doz Awakener is safe as an average cup of hot, black coffee. Take a No Doz Awakener when you cram for that exam ...or when mid-afternoon brings on those “3 o’clock cobwebs.” You’ll find No Doz gives you a lift without a letdown... helps you snap back to normal and fight fatigue safely’ '-'*-35‘'lre™^

Dormi) 60 foblth —

NO[)OZ

AWAKE NE RS

wherever

Your Air Force wings are your personal passport to universal respect and admiration. They’re a sign—recognized everywhere— that mark you as one of America’s finest.

To wear them, you must win them ... as an Aviation Cadet. They come with the gold bars of

you go...

an Air Force Lieutenant and earnings of over $5,000 a year! They come complete with the admiration of a grateful Nation.

If you’re single, between 19 and 26^, prepare to win this passport to success. Join the Aviation Cadets! For further information, • fill out this coupon today.

CNl

AVIATION CADET, AFPTR-F-4 Headquarters, U.S.A.F. '^^d F Washington 25, D.C.

Please send me information on my opportunities as an Air Force Pilot,

Addrttl

SAFI AS COFFtg

UNITED STATES AIR FORCE

Oy State April 23, 1954

THE CHICAGO MAROON

Page 11

i Xr Xm ZMaroons w'n f'rst game

JV trackmen also faced the water test Wednesday and trod through the mud to edge state champions La Grange and city champions Wendell Phillips. Final score was Chicago 51%, La Grange 50% and Phillips 46.

Dick Scupi won the mile and Chuck Youse the shot-put for the only clean cut Chicago victories, but the Maroons, especially Mitch Watkins, piled up points by placing second or third in almost every event they didn’t win.

Jim Brown set a new JV record of :51.5 as he finished third in the 440. Watkins was high scorer for the meet with 11% points.

Last Thursday, April 15, Watkins was held to a mere 21% points as the JV team downed Tilden Tech and Du Sable High schools. Score was Chicago 85%, Tilden 46% and Du Sable 16.

Other lightweight winners were Youse on the shot, Brown in the 440, and Lynn Small in the 100, 220 and the shot-put. Small, running with Chernoff, Bill Mitchell and Brown, turned in a scorching anchor leg to snatch victory from a speedy Tilden quartet.

Sports Briefs

Hetmen tumble teachers

but then the roof falls in

by Leonard Friedman

The Maroons snapped a three-game losing streak last Friday as they downed Chicago Teachers, 10-5, on the diamond at Stagg Field. But at Milliken College on Tuesday they were soundly trounced, 17-6.

Poor fielding consistently hampered Maroon chances for victory as Milliken pulled ahead to an early 7-0 lead off starter John Broyles and piled up a commanding lead over reliever Jerry Bowman.

Bab Mann’s bases-loaded homer and a two-run double drove in all the Maroon tallies and

proved to be the high point of Maroon slugging for the day. Pitching was steady and as usual iron-man Walt 

had a fine day behind the plate.

Tarr leads Maroons

Relieving and starring in a fourinning stint against Chicago Teachers, Buzz Tarr finally coralled the first varsity victory. The win was also sparked by solid hitting and smart baserunning behind the two-hit, no run performance of Tarr. Tarr, a veteran from last year’s squad, exhibited fine control and with a tight infield proved invincible on the mound.

Jerry Bohman started for the team and was rapped for five quick runs, mainly due to a relapse on the part of Maroon fielders. Five strikeouts helped Bohman stem the rally and hold Chicago Teachers to only those five initial runs.

Errors help Maroon rally

Varsity stickmen went to work in the fourth inning—helped also by the errorful ball played by Chicago Teachers. George Grey and Gil Levine reached the bases via errors. Don Mazukelli followed with' a hit that scored Grey, and he and Levine were promptly brought around on a long triple by third-sacker Al Binford. On a ground ball by Bohman, Binford scored the fourth run of the inning.

The Maroons pulled ahead in the fifth inning through heads-up base-running and timely hitting by Makukelli and Bob Mann. Alditional runs were scored in the sixth and seventh innings.

Tarr opened the sixth with a base hit. Walt Walker doubled and scored Tarr. Performing in the same fashion team captain Dave Utley belted a base hit and brought Walker in with the second run of the inning. Three straight hits by Binford Tarr and Walker piled up the final runs in the ten run Maroon total.

Coach Anderson was in a chipper mood as he left the field and

he thought that Tarr would strong asset in the coming paign. Anderson appears to finally worked the team

be a camhave into

shape and produced a winning combination.

The Maroons next game will be against Illinois Tech at Stagg Field tomorrow at 3:30.

Chicago

Teachers Maroons

050 000 00— 5

000 422 2x—10

6

9

Joe Howard is the track team’s star shotputter who threw the 16 pound ball 43 feet, nine inches last Saturday and 42 feet Wednesday. He hails from Hartford Connecticut, and lives on campus at Billings Hospital.

for eleventh straight win

Chicago Teachers fell before the onslaught of the Maroon netmen last Friday on the varsity courts, 8-1. This was the third straight win for the UC tennis squad this spring and their eleventh straight if last season’s games are included.

Chuck Werner, Duncan Burford, Gerard Ledermann, Rene Montjoie and Toby Owen had no trouble winning their matches while the doubles teams of Werner-Burford, George Stone-Owen and Montjoie Ledermann slammed the doubles matches.

The JV netmen open their season this afternoon against Chicago Latin. Monday they return home to face Harvard on the varsity courts at 3:30 p.m.

Bowlers fall; pins don't in meet

Maroon trackmen knock down records, Wendell Marumoto knocks down opposing pitchers, but the UC bowling team didn’t knock down enough pins Monday evening and they wound up where bad bowlers wind up—buying the beers in the fifth frame. The four-man team bowled a 20-game total of 2898 (an average of slightly less than 145 per man) against the “B” competition in the First Annual National Intercollegiate Telegraphic Bowling Tournament sponsored by the American College Unions Association. (Whew!)

The team selected last quarter in try-outs sponsored by Student Union consisted of Glenn Hoffman, high scorer with a 636 series, Bill Mosher, Chuck Mulbrandon and Ted Gray. The final results and standards won’t be known until next week. The poor showing made by the newly-formed bowling club was their first and only showing of the 1953-54 season.

Pros sand-trap varsity golfers

Like Little Red Hiding Hood who went through the woods to grandmother’s house, the varsity golfers took the wrong path last Saturday. The divot-makers learned that the shortest way from the first tee to the eighteenth hole of the Cog Hill course is not through the foliage, but on the fairways, the route taken by Illinois Professional Schools who won the match 10-8. Bison shot a two over par 76, while Bob Kelso followed with 82 for the best Maroon showings.

After facing St. Joseph at Cog Hill yesterday the golfers travel to Beechwood Country Club in La Porte, Indiana to face Valparaiso tomorrow. The JV golfers open the season against Hyde Park at Jackson Park this afternoon.

Chicago chess team wins again

In a somewhat delayed match, the Chicago chess teaqi defeated Wright Junior College, 3-2. Playing four games Friday and one Tuesday, the UCers face a Wright team which threw their strongest players against the Maroon’s weaker members, but Chuck Hennen and Larry Abrahams managed to win and Burt Weinstein and Joel Kupperman pulled draws. Mort Shapiro was the lone UC loser. The Chicago chess-men are currently leading the Chicago Intercollegiate Chess League with two wins and one draw.

Sports events this week

Tomorrow—Varsity fencers face stern competition in the Illinois Division Amateur Fencing League of America matches in Bartlett Gym at l:3|^and 7 p.m. The Maroon baseballers will face Illinois Tech at 2 p.m. in Stagg Field. Monday—the JV tennis team will meet Harvard school at 3:30 p.m. on the Varsity courts. Thursday—the JV trackmen run against Mt. Carmel High School at Stagg Field at 3:30 p.m.

Maroon shortstop, Wendell Marumoto, is looking forward to a successful season with the Maroon diamondeers. Marumoto, whose swift baserunning has tumbled many a player 30 or 40 pounds heavier, hails from Honolulu, Hawaii, and is a member of Psi Upsilon fraternity. This is his second year on the varsity squad.

ALEXANDER'S THE GREAT

PLACE TO EAT OFF CAMPUS OPEN DAY AND NIGHT

YOUR HOSTS WILL BE

PAC opposes two referenda

Opposition to at least two of the five propositions on the National Student Association ballot was voted by the executive committee of the new Political Action Committee (PAC) at an open meeting Wednesday night.

Ralph D. Fertig, temporary PAC chairman, said that the group is “definitely opposed” to electing five members at large to the Student Assembly and to the removal of executive officers of Student Government through the initiative of the SG president.

PAC favors amending the term of the tration Court and supports the idea of filling vacancies in SG on a party basis. The committee took no immediate stand on a fifth proposition, concerning by-elections for SG.

Street signs (from page 6)

vived, but so have other forms of ‘punishment.’ Tearing down street signs and having to drive around town in the wee hours of the morning to sign in for pledge work are some other variations on a disgusting theme Let’s, have some action to discourage these practices. We’d rather have hazing dead and our pledges alive.”

Normality redefined

At Oklahoma City University a coed sought help in the classified ad columns of her school’s newspaper in an attempt to retrieve some lost articles. Among the items were two mechanical pencils, a purple formal, one shoe, a $3 check, a pajama bottom, a suit of long underwear and a white shirt. “It’s normal for a girl to lose these things,” she explained.

GEORGE KYROS

1137 - 39 East 63rd Street

PETE HRISTAKOS

Portraits by

LOUISE BARKER

Photographer

1457 E. 57th St. BU 8-0876

'Run-for-fun' boys face water test, win twice by large leads

by Justin Johnson and Spike Pinney

Running in Saturday’s sunshine and Wednesday s rhud and rain, the varsity track team sped to victory over Washington University (St. Louis) and Wilson Junior College. The “run for fun” boys coasted to victory over Washington, 80 2/3 50 1/3 and gained an even easier triumph as they swam through the mud and water that formed the Stagg Field track

Wednesday to down Wilson, ioiy2-2oy2.

Frank Loomos, still running with a game leg, won the 100 yard dash and the 220 low hurdles to tie with Phil Wyatt for high scorer Wednesday. Wyatt won the 220 and 440 yard dashes. The Maroons lost only one event as mud-spattered winner after mud-spattered winner came off the water logged track to seek the shelter of the Stagg Field stands.

Trifone gets two firsts

Dan Trifone took the 120 yard high-hurdles and was followed to the wire by Sherry Gray and John Lathrop. Trifone also tied for first in the high jump with Bob Mason and Paul Baptist. A four-way tie in the pole vault was recorded as Baptist and Ken Stapley leapt 10 feet along with two Wilson trackment.

In the field events, Joe Howard, Roger Forsyth and Clive Gray swept the shot put for Chicago. Howard’s toss was 42 feet. Forsyth and Gray were joined by Larry Shaderowsky in a sweep of the discus, with Forsyth throwing the metal plate 119'7".

Relay team swims to tope

Art Omohundro took the mile in 4:37.2 and Arnie Meardon won the 880 yard run. Chicago took another sweep in the two mile as Ray Sanders, Palmer Pinney and Jim Flynn placed one, two, three. The mile relay team set a new

Coif and tennis

(from page 10)

golf like that in tennis has attracted four entrants at this time. These four and any others who apply will tee off on the Jackson Park course on May 7. As with tennis, the winner will be awarded a handsome medal signifying his success. A third tournament, horseshoes, had been planned, but since only one student signed up, Boycheff canceled the tourney and had to put his horseshoe medal back in the drawer until next year. .

swimming record as they splashed to a slow victory.

Water also featured in the meet Saturday against Washington university, but in this instance it was a water fight in the Field-House locker room after the game. Evidently, the St. Louis runners didn’t provide enough competition for the Maroon speedsters so Walt Deike took after Sherry Gray with a few water-soaked towels. Within minutes the locker-room was drenched and so were Chicago trackmen.

Higdon and Loomos handled the long and the short end for the Maroons as Washington fell, 80 2/3-50 2/3. Each scored two victories, Higdon the mile and twomile, Loomos the 100 and 220 yard dashes.

Omohundro ran 2:02.7 to post his first major win in the 880, coming from behind on the last straightaway to overhaul teammates Pinney and Meardon. Stapley built up a big lead in the 440 and coasted to the tape, finishing :51.5.

Top ten (from page 7)

next four years. 3) Foreign exchange—greater foreign exchange leads to greater international understanding. Let us strive for a larger student exchange program with all countries not just the Soviet Union. 4) The student whp must work his way through college suffers greatly from the additional burden of taxes. The NSA lobby in Washington must help us introduce bills in congress to eliminate income tax on the earnings of legitimate students while they are working their way through school.”

The MAROON has presented the views of all candidates in the upper five. At deadline time, there was no statement available from ISL candidate Bruce Larkin.

The views expressed are those of the candidates and their parties and do not reflect those of the MAROON or its staff —’. —-<^i Jl^

1 "

Friday, April 23

Preliminaries in the Florence James Adams Poetry Contest will be held in Breasted Hall, 3:30 p.m. The contest is sponsored by the department of English. Public Invited.

Bus < ess Club will have a coffee hour and discussion, 3:30 p.m. at Haskell Hall. A Kroger representative will speak on “Employment in Retail Grocery,” and a film will follow.

French language table will meet at 6 p.m. in Int. House dining room.

••Rancho Notorious,” starring Marlene Dietrich and sponsored by Doc Film Group, will be shown in Social Sciences 122 at 7:15 and 9:30 p.m. Admission 50 cents.

Saturday, April 24

WUS Annual Benefit Dance will take place in Ida Noyes Gym. Admission is $2.50 per couple.

Sunday, April 25

University Religious Service will be held at Rockefeller Chapel, 11 a.m, The Reverend Bernard M. Loomer, Federated Theological Faculty, will be guest preacher.

Carillon recital at Rockefeller Memorial Chapel, 4 p.m. by James R. Lawson, carillonneur.

♦•Duos in Jazz,” a concert, will be given in Mandel Hall, 2:30 p.m. General admission is $1, reserved section is $1.50. World University Service is the sponsoring organization.

Channing Club meeting will consist of a supper at 6 p.m., followed by the second discussion In the series “The Road to Utopia,” on the economic and political aspects of Utopias. Fenn House, 5638 Woodlawn.

Porter Foundation will sponsor a discussion on “Unity and Disunity in the Christian Church.” It will be held in Room A of International House, 7:30 p.m. Refreshments will be served.

Monday, April 26

Federated Theological Faculty is sponsoring a lecture by Professor J. H Waszurk, professor at the University of Leyden, on Christianity and philosophy in the first century. Swift 106. 4:30 p.m.

German Language Table will meet at 6 p.m. at International House.

“New Gulliver” is the Russian film that will be shown at Internationa! House, 7 and 9 p.m. Admission is 35 cents.

Student Discussion of Buddhism as a philosophy and a religion will take place in Social Science 105, 8 pm. Harry Harada. Far Eastern Librarian at Northwestern University, will lead the group.

“Some Thoughts on Sentencing and Parole” is the subject of a lecture that will be delivered by Paul W. Tappan, Chairman U. S. Board of Parole and Professor of Sociology at New York University. 8:30 p.m. at Law North.

Tuesday, April 27

Inter-Varsity Christian Fellowship will sponsor a speaker-luncheon from 12:30-1:20 p.m. at Ida Noyes, third floor. Clem Walbert will speak on “A Picture Talk—Christ in Action.”

♦‘Prior Claim,” a movie produced by the Moody Scientific Institute, will be shown at International House, 7:30 p.m. Inter-Varsity Christian Fellowship is the sponsoring organization

“Psychoanalysis and Ethics,” is another in the series of the William Ellery Channing Lecture - Series, “Psychoanalysis and Modern Life.” The speaker will be Alan Gewirth, Assistant Professor of Philosophy. Breasted Hall, 8 p.m.

Two British documentaries. “Waters of Time” and “El Dorado,” will be shown by Doc Film Group in Social Sciences 122 at 7;15 and 9:30 p.m. Admission 50 cents.

Wednesday, April 28

Pre-Med Club will hold a meeting at Abbott 420, 3:30 p.m. Discussion “Why the Medical Profession?”

Business Club will sponsor a coffee hour and discussion for all students interested in business and education, in order to show them what UC Business Education means. It will, take place at 3:30 p.m. in the second floor lounge of Haskell Hall.

James R. Lawson will give a carillon recital at Rockefeller Memorial Chapel. 4:30 p.m.

UC Sailing Club Meeting will take place 7:30 p.m. at Ida Noyes, East Lounge. The group will discuss racing.

Fourth in the Charles R. Walgreen Foundation Lecture Series: “The Foundations of Democracy,” will be given at Social Science 122. 4:30 p.m Mr. Keisen will* speak on “Democracy and Economics.”

n Politics Club will meet at Ida Noyes Hall, 8 p.m. “F. D. R. as a Political Technician” will be the subject of the meeting. Admission is 25 cents.

Center for the Study of American For- • eign Policy will sponsor a lecture to be held at Social Science 122, 8 p.m. The Honorable William Howard Taft III, U. S. ambassador to Ireland, will speak on “United States Policy Toward Small Nations.’’

Thursday, April 29

UC Chapter of the Socialist Party will hold an organizational meeting and social at Ida Noyes 7:30 p.m. The group will elect officers and discuss May Day Activities.

“Christian Science: The Understanding of Man’s Unity With God,” is the subject of a lecture sponsored by the UC Christian Science Organization. Mrs. Georgina Tennant, of London, member of Board of Lectureship of the First Church of Christ Scientist in Boston, Mass., will deliver the lecture. Social Science 122, 8 p.m.

“Fountainhead” will be shown at International House, 7 and 9 p.m. Admission is 35 cents.

Calvert Club will hold a public lecture at Breasted Hall, 8 p.m. Reverend Martin C. D’Arcy, S.J., will speak on “The Nature of Belief.”

Beat the Devil

Jimmy’s

1172 E. 55th

Classified • • •_

Found

Gold men’s wrist watch on Midway.

Owner can claim same by identifying.

Robert Demery Room 444, BJ.

Ten tickets Northwestern University concert. Identify same, self, and receive. BU 8-3148,

Lost

Monday, Maroon Eversharp pen in Soc. Sci. 105 or 122 or between them. Ed Levine. PL 2-3720.

White gold Bulova watch with clampon band. Call KE 6-3957 if found. Reward.

For Rent

Newly decorated two and one and a half room furnished apts.; also large sleeping rooms. 2 blocks from UC; linens, maid service, reasonable rent. 6107 Dorchester Ave., PL 2-9641.

Room, adjoining bath, clean, quiet, cook, home privileges. $8 a week. 2 blocks from UC. Girl. Phone eves., 5-9 p.m. except Thursday. DO 3-7159.

Chesterfields for Me I

< Largest > Selling Cigarette ga in America's

\ Colleges >

"Chesterfields for Mel"

Xfa&rt Os £^^i/ U.S.C. '56

The cigarette that gives you proof of highest quality—low nicotine. For the taste and mildness you want—smoke America’s 

CHESTERFIEL VUli V I Ei Bll Lli

^yr^jw

Today’s CHESTERFIELD is the Best Cigarette Ever Made!

“Chesterfields for Mel”

X^^ ^“ Univ. of

X&&&<& G^^d Wi Z Idaho '54

The cigarette tested and approved by 30 years of scientific tobacco research.

v Ia^'IMmmi No. I Bandloador

The cigarette with a proven good record with smokers. Here is the record. Bi-monthly examinations of a group of smokers show no adverse effects to nose, throat and sinuses from smoking Chesterfield.

Four rooms, porch, $42 month. Furniture for sale. 943 East 55th Street, 3rd floor, rear.

Rooms for men. $6.50 a week, lower rates per quarter; linens. Phi Sigma Delta, PL 2-9477.

One-room kitchenette, gas range, refrigerator, $8 to $15. 6051 Kimbark, SA 18041 or DO 3-9511.

Eight room apt., furnished: May 25 to Dec. 25. Opposite BJ; $100. MU 4-3983.

For Sale

Admiral TV, 21-lnch table model, aerial, table; one year old; $125 or best offer. 825 E. 59th Street.

Chevrolet two-door, 1952, radio, heater. Excellent condition. Call Levine, evenings, HY 3-0875.

French Provincial tea cart, chrome dinette set, knotty pine love seat, coffee table, chair. NO 7-0999.

*49 Ford two-door Custom V-8, maroon, heater, radio, overdrive; excellent condition; $395. MU 4-2649.

Tennis racquet. Kro-bat, protect nylon, excellent condition. J. S. Magidson. Evenings, call BU 8-5737.

Solid walnut executive desk. 40 by 73

inches; Hamilton upright piano; king size bed; modern, colorful framed prints; portable barbecue; 15 cubic feet deep freezer; kitchen table; chairs; beds; chests; Frigidaire. OA 4-4543.

35mm Argus camera, f/4.5 lens, with leather carrying case. $14. Nils Swanson, Snell 50, Extension 1072.

New Sparton AM-FM radio. A real bargain.See Toni Vogler,* 515 BJ or call MI 3-6000.

Colliers Encyclopedia, 20 volumes, new. 1952 edition. Call evenings, KEdzie 3-5259.

Services

Dres sin a king, alterations reasonable. Phone mornings or evening. FA 4-7646.

Rent an electric refrigerator as low as $4 per month. Also we repair refrigerators. CO 4-9231.

Mathematics. Special Instruction to fit your mathematics needs. Individual or group sessions. Albert Soglin, ST 2-6727.

Wanted

Would like the use of a record cutting machine for a few hours. Phone Bob Marcus. MI 3-5604 or Joan Kaplan, BI 8-0563.

Bassinette. Wilson. MI 3-9256.

Tuition in English in exchange for fee Call 6-7 p.m. BU 8-0239.

Help Wanted

Salesmen to sell the Chicago Review; liberal percentage. Contact Mrs. Mullen’ Student Activities Office.

Readers wanted, $1 per hour. Time and amount of work to be arranged to suit you. George Shola, Chamberlain House.

Secretary. Opportunity for able typist, alert and personable, to use initiative. Intelligence, and judgment. Shorthand not required. General office experience desirable. Private research organization. UC, MI 3-0800, Ext. 1171.

Riders Wanted

Riders wanted to eastern Pennsylvania leaving Monday, April 26. Share expenses. Dan Hollon, MU 4-0967 before 1 p.m.

Personal

Would all people who still have copies of the Bill of Rights scroll return them to the Reynolds Club desk immediately.

In front of and behind camera enthusiasts, interested in making amateur movie, call Ariel Hamill. 31 Kelly.