DAILY MAROON

1950 - 1954 END

OF FILM "PLEASE REWIND” START

UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO

JOSEPH REGENSTEIN LIBRARY PHOTODUPLICATION DEPARTMENT

ill Vil Ell Ell III Oil 61 8l Z I 91 91 t^ £ I El WOiaisw

; DAILY MAROON

1054 1957 INCOMPLETE OR IMPERFECT

AT THE TIME OF FILMING THIS WAS THE MOST COMPLETE FILE THAT COULD BE LOCATED.

IF AN IMPERFECT OR MISSING SECTION IS SUBSEQUENTLY LOCATED IT WILL BE FOUND AT THE END OF THIS REEL. 425 Enter College

Await Divisional

Entrant Increase

4*25 entering freshmen end their twenty-three hour battery of placement tests this afternoon. During the past four days th*’ new students have gone through the mill of orientation week activities — tests, tours, talks and the meeting of new friends and becoming adjusted to the new University environment.

These 425 students represent an increase of 110 over last year. The number of entrants in the graduate divisions of the University has also increased over last year, according to Registrar William E. Scott.

Total Enrollment Same

Tie large number of graduating students last spring was originally expected to minimize the effects of the increased number of entrants. But the awaited two per cent decrease in total enrollment is not anticipated at present. 1954’s enrollment will be approximately the same as that of 1953.

Graduate registration will not end until Monday, so exact figures are not now available.

Harrison Greets Entrants

The freshman class was greeted Monday morning in Mandel hall by R. Wendell Harrison, University vice-president, acting for Chancellor Kimpton, who will return from his European tour next week.

Student Government president Clive S. Gray, former Student Union president William C. Hillman and Orientation Board president James Rosenblum also greeted the new students.

Visit Reynolds ( tub

Today new students will gather in the Reynolds Club lounge for a coffee hour and a chance to converse with some student leaders. Visits to the Reynolds Club offices of student organizations are also on the itinerary. --; “

Maroon staff members will also Student Government officials be on hand to greet prospective step into the orientation week picstaff members and show them ture Tuesday and Wednesday. SG the operation of the paper in the members will guide out-of-town second floor office. Student Gov- entrants on tours of the city. The ernment, Student Forum, Chicago tours include visits to Maxwell Review and University Theatre street, the stockyards, and the members will also be present. 1°°P area'

Friday evening features the The highlight of postorientaannual activities night in Ida tion-week activities is the Noyes hall. Student Organizations Chancellor's Reception. Chancelwill present exhibits to lure fu- lor and Mrs. Kimpton, just reture members. turned from Europe, and other

Also in Ida Noyes, the first C- University officials and their dance of the year will be held the wives will greet both new and following evening. Sponsored by old students. The reception will Student Union, the dance will be held in Ida Noyes hall next start at 9 p.m. and is open to all Friday at 8:30 p.m. Following the students, new and old. Admission reception will be dancing in the is free. Cloister club in the hall.

Phi Delts Win

Fight, Remove

Selective Clause

Welcome To The University

(Because Chancellor Kimpton has not yet returned from his European tour, the MAROON has asked Dean of Students Robert M. Strozier to write this customary ivelcome to the entering class.)

Lawrence A. Kimpton Chancellor of the University who is in Europe visiting educational centers.

Greetings to the men and women who this week begin their academic careers at the University of Chicago.

Chicago students pride themselves on preserving few of the symbolic traditions of the academic world.

Tradition is strong at Chicago, nonetheless. It is a tradition for democratic social life; for frank and free discussions; for a real and true concern for learning: for impatience with sham; for the liberty and dignity of the individual.

We invite you to engage freely and fully in this glorious heritage, believing that you will soon feel pride in Chicago's tradition.

Our welcome to you is genuine and sincere.

Robert M. Strozier, Dean of Students

Robert M. Strozier dean of students, who welcomes the 1954 entering class of the university.

Libby Leaving UC,

Accepts AEC Post

By Alice Bloom

Dr. Willar Frank Libby, professor of chemistry in the UC Institute of Nuclear Studies since 1950, leaves the University Thursday to accept President Eisenhower’s appointment to the Atomic Energy commission.

He will assume the responsibilities of Dr. Henry D. Smyth, who resigned.

In 1950 Libby won acclaim as the originator of Carbon 14, method for determining the age of organic material, such as fossil remaias. This measuring principle involved is to determine the radio-activity of the material.

Libby is one of the discovers of tritium, an esential material used for the hydrogen bomb.

The recent appointment of congress reconvenes in January, statement concerning his appoint Libby to the AEC is subject His term will expire June 30.1956. ment:

to Senate confirmation after Libby issued the following “The appointment to the Atom Phi Delta Theta fraternity is now able to comply with University membership requirements. The only “Michigan plan” on campus Is now* settled.

At the end of the 1954 Spring quarter, Phi Delta Theta was the last remaining student organization which had not met Student Government (SG) requirements banning consideration for membership on the basis of “race, color or creed.”

Last spring SG passed an amendment to the student code which was signed by Robert M. Strozier, dean of students. The amendment set October 15, 1954, as the deadline for meeting the regulations.

Inform Dean, SG

Harris Hartzler, chapter president, informed Dean Strozier and SG of the change. The new clause was voted at the fraternity's national convention September 1-4

at Mackinac, Michigan.

Hartzler, however, in accordance with the fraternity’s constitution, refused to divulge the new wording. Fraternity regulations state that the constitution is “secret.”

He was sharply critical of pressures which were brought to bear upon the fraternity’s local chapter by Student Government.

(Details in next week’s Maroon)

Towle Denied Fulbright

Dr. Charlotte Towle has been denied a Fulbright scholarship by the foreign scholarship board in Washington. The London School of Economics had asked her to spend a year in London directing a case work program.

The scholarship for the internationally known Social Service Adwinist ration professor had previously been approved by three separate boards. Frederick L. Hovde, president of Purdue University, who heads the scholarship board gave no reason for the refusal.

It is believed that her name was struck from the approved list because she signed a petition urging clemency for the Rosenbergs and because she had been a member of an organization advocating aid to the Spanish loyalists.

Two British members of the Fulbright board have resigned in protest. However, it is generally believed there is still a chance of the scholarship being approved. Professor Towle was not available for comment.

Willard F. Libby the UC professor of chemistry in the Institute of Nuclear Studies, who devised the carbon 14 method of determining the age of archaeological objects. Libby is leaving the University to accept an appointment to the US Atomic Energy commission.

ic Energy Commission is the highest honor I have ever received. The portentous issues of the atomic age give the commission the opportunity to serve the nation and mankind in an unprecedented way.

“It is my sincere hope that all of the decisions with which I may in the future be associated will prove to be wise and will give those who have expressed such great confidence in me no cause for regret.”

Had California Post

A native of Grand Valley, Colorado, Libby attended the University of California. He received his Ph.D. degree in chemistry at California in 1933. He attained the position of associate professor of chemistry there before he resigned in 1945 to come to Chicago.

During the waj he was a member of the Manhattan project which designed the atomic bomb. In 1950 President Truman named him to the AEC general advisory committee.

Libby is a member of the National Academy of Science, the American Physics society, the American Chemical society, Phi Beta Kappa, Pi Mu Epsilon, Alpha Chi Sigma and Sigma Xi.

While at Chicago Libby and his wife Leonor and their two daughters, Janet and Susan, lived at 5317 S. Greenwood. THE CHICAGO MAROON 24, 1954

Coming Campus Events

Friday, September 24

Cotfee hour for all new students 4-5 p.m. Reynolds Student Cubhouse, Southwest corner of University Avenue and East Fifty-seventh Street. Tours of Student Activities offices. Sponsored by the Reynolds Club Council, the Chicago MAROON, Student Government, Iron Mask, and the Student Activities Office.

Activities Night 7:30-1 1 p.m. Ida Nyoes Hall, 1212 East Fiftyriinth Street.

displays and demonstrations of the activities of various campus organizations. New students will meet leaders in activities and will have an opportunity to join organizations in which they are interested.

Sponsored by Student Government, Student Union, and the Student Activities Office.

Sabbath Services and Fireside discussion, B'nai B'rith Hillel Foundation, 5715 Woodlawn Ave. Services at 7:45 p.m. and Fireside discussion: First in a series on Symbols in Religious Traditions, 8:30 p.m. "Religious Symbols in the Catholic 7 radition," The Reverend Joseph E. Connerton, director of De Sales House.

Saturday, September 25

Registration for the autumn quarter, Bartlett Gymnasium, 8 :30 a m.-1 2:00 Noon and 1 :3O-5 :00 p.m. For all students except those entering the College.

C-Dance—.For both entering and returning students. 9:30 p.m. midnight. Ida Noyes Hall. No admission charge. Sponsored by Student Union.

Sunday, September 26

University Religious service especially arranged for new students. 1 1 a.m.

Rockefeller Memorial Chapel, East Fifty-ninth Street and Woodlawn Avenue.

The Reverend John B. Thompson, Dean of the Chapel, preaching.

Carillon Recital. 4:30 p.m. Rockefeller Memorial Chapel. James R Lawson, Chapel Carillonneur.

Organ Recital. Rockefeller Memorial Chapel. Heinrich Fleischer, University Organist. *

Supper for All New Students in the College. 6 p m. Dining Room, Hutchinson Commons, southwest corner of University Avenue and East Fifty-seventh Street. /Admission by ticket.

New students will be guests of the University Chapel. The supper will be followed by a panel discussion.

Important meeting of the UC delegation to the National Student Association. 8 p.m. In Burton-Judson. Inquire at B-J fur meeting room.

Open-House Social meetings sponsored by Campus Religious Groups. 8:30-10 p.m.

Chapel House, Protestant Student Center, 5810 Woodlawn Hillel Foundation, Jewish Student Center, 5735 Woodlawn

Monday, September 27

Registration for the autumn quarter at Bartlett gymnasium. 8:30 a.m.-12 noon and 1 :3O-5 p.m For all students.

Motion Picture: Ma Pomme (French), International House, 8 p.m. 45 cents admission. Directed by Marc Gilbert Saurajon. Starring Maurice Chevalier. Maurice Chevalier is back again. A gay musical in which Chevalier plays a hobo who becomes a reluctant heir to a fortune.

Divisional Activities Night at Ida Noyes Hall, 7:30 p m. Free refreshments. Sponsored by Student Government.

Rosh Hashana Service, Hillel Foundation, 5715 Woodlawn Ave., 7 :45 p m., by ticket — no charge.

Tuesday, September 28

Registration of students entering the college, Bartlett Gymnasium, 8:30 a.m.-12 noon and 1 :3O-5 p.m.

Classes in the divisions and professional schools regularly scheduled for Tuesday meet for the first time. Other classes will meet according to their reguar schedules.

Rosh Hashana Service, Hillel Foundation, 5715 Woodlawn Ave., 9:30 a.m. and 7:45 p.m., by ticket — no charge

General meeting of the Student-Faculty Committee for Barrett O'Hara in Ida Noyes, east lounge, 7:30 p.m.

Wednesday, September 29

Ros{> Hashana Service, Hillel Foundation, 5715 Woodlawn Ave., 9:30 a.m., by ticket — no charge.

Motion Picture: Arsenic and Old Lace. Judson Count Lounge, 7 p.m. and 9:15 p.m. No admission charge. Sponsored by B-J council.

Registration of students entering the col lee, Bartlett Gymnasium, 8:30 a.m.-12 noon and 1 :3O-5 p.m.

Lecture (Law School*, L^w south, 8:30 p.m. "Chief Justice Charles Evans Hughes." Merlo J. Pussey, author and lecturer.

Thursday, September 30

First day of classes in the College. Classes not regularly scheduled to meet will meet according to their regular schedules.

Motion Picture: The Male Animal (American), International House. Starring Henry Fonda, Olivia de Havilland. Screen adaptation of the famous play in which a college professor successfully defends the American institution of free speech and academic freedom and in so doing straightens out his personal life. Admission 35 cents.

"Have You Heard”

THE PIZZA KID

is on (.3rd

Fcoturing Pizza at its 'Finest Bar-B-Q Back Ribs - Chicken Spaghetti - Ravioli - Mustaccoli Italian Sausage or Beef Sandwiches Kosher Corned Beef

Daily: 11 a.m. to 1 a.m.

Sunday: 4 p.m. to 1 a.m.

“We Deliver” DO 3-9777 1125 E. 63rd

NS A Rejects US-Soviet Exchange at Ames Meet by Leslie Foster

Student action on academic freedom, international student cooperation, and improved self-government highlighted the seventh annual Congress of the US National Student association (NSA) at Ames, Iowa, August 22-31.

The Congress adopted a resolution, strongly supported by Clive S. Gray, UC Student Government president, which authorized NSA officials to support student exchange programs.

A second resolution, urged by Richard E. Ward, head of the IC delegation, was defeated,

235-69. It specifically named the Soviet Union and other communist countries as participants in an exchange plan.

An estimated 700 students from 250 colleges and universities throughout the U. S. participated in the Congress, which serves as a workshop for campus government and as the supreme legislative body for NSA. Faculty and administrative perfonnei, campus editors, and students from 23 countries abroad also attended.

DCers Split

More on NSA Next Week

A complete report on the Seventh Annual Congress of the National Student Association will be published in the MAROON next Friday.

The report will be written by members of the UC delegation. Excerpts from important resolutions will also be printed.

seminar at Cambridge, Massachusetts, studying the question of how to counter communist efforts to control youth movements throughout the world.

NSA Important

Both Gray and Ward felt that

the NSA congress is an increasingly important organization shaking for the American siudent community. They said it is demonstrating its worth by pro. viding a medium for students io express- themselves on matters which affect them as students.

University of Chicago delegates attending the congress were; Ward, Lawrence Lichtenstein, Albert NT. Fortier Jr., Janice Met roc, Gray. Bruce Larkin attended as chairman of the Illinois region of NSA.

The six UC votes were split along ISL-SRP lines on the student exchange issue. Gray said that the resolution which passed does not exclude student exchanges with communist countries. However, he feels that students from these countries have demonstrated that they are not at this time capable of the free interchange of ideas and the mutual understanding which he feels is the purpose of such a program.

Ward, who was one of the student officers who recently visited the Soviet Union, argued that the effect of the resolution would be to bar exchange programs with communist countries. Instead, he said, he favors such programs wherever they were possible. He believes the defeated resolution, naming communist countries specifically, would be “one of our contributions, as students, to secure a peaceful world.”

Further actions taken by the Congress were:

1) Academic Freedom: Passed a resolution slating that “in almost every case” present membership in subversive organizations destroys a professor’s ability to teach, but maintained that each ease should be judged individually by faculty involved. The UC group voted affirmatively. However, Ward said SRP disagreed with portions of it, but felt that this was the best resolution they would be able to obtain.

2) International Student Cooperat ion: Passed a resolution strongly supporting the International Student Conference, and condemned the allegedly communist-run International Union of Students as “a partisan political organization with numerous student splinter groups.” Again the UC group voted affirmatively. Gray felt the IUS is a fraud which should be ignored. He said it was properly termed “the student section of the Cominform.”

3) Segregation: Endorsed, 285-4, a special committee report initialed by southern schools calling foi' an immediate end to segregation in all institutions of higher education, and outlined steps by which students might help achieve this transition on individual campuses. The Chicago delegation again voted aye.

4) Probes: Heard Senator Guy Gillette (Dem.-Iowa) attack congressional investigations of universities as acts of “power seeking demagogs claiming to act in the name of anti-communism.”

Gray was chosen by the NSA national executive committee as the NSA delegate on the National Committee for UNESCO. Gray had spent the summer at an NSA

Alternates attending the NSA Congress for UC were Carolyn Eggert, Lyn Burns, Barbara Vogelfanger. Fred Solomon, Shirley Long, and Robert Floyd,

All UC delegates and alternates were elected by an all-campus election last Spring REYNOLDS CLUB BARBER SHOP o Hours 8-5, Monday-Fridoy • 8-1, Saturday Shoe Shine Service 6 Registered Rarbers Only Barber Shop on Campus Basement, Reynolds Club 

When.you pause...make if count...have a Coke 1

BOTTLED UNDE* AUTHORITY OF THE COCA COLA COMPANY BY The Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Chicago, Inc.

•Coin” it a rgiiigrd Wade-mart. O 1953, The Coca-Cola Company September 24, 1954

Varren Dedicates ABA Center Here

by Paul Hoffman

The newest building on campus, the American Bar association’s center, was dedicated in a colorful ceremony last month by Earl Warren, chief justice of the United States.

Warren, speaking in Rockefeller chapel across the Midway from the bar center, said “it is fitting that we have this dedicatory service in a house of God.” .

Ue said it was also fitting that the bar center is near “one of the great uni versities of the world constant reminder to us to insist upon man’s right to knowiedgo and the free use thereof, the right to explore at will, to disagree with, and even to dissent from, the opinions of the major“If we are to achieve a peaceful world,” Warren asserted, “it will tie accomplished through Meas rather than armaments, through a sense of justice and mutual friendship rather than with guns and bombs and guided

The chief justice explained that lawyers could use the center to learn Io “apply to ever changing conditions the never changing principles of freedom.” Warren stated that perfection in governmerit is never permanently

‘Struggie for Freedoms’

Ite elaborated: “We believe that so long as human nature is such as it is, there must be a constant struggle to preserve our freedoms. We do not propose to let nature take its course.

“On the contrary, we are determined here to create the climate essential to the constant improvement of both the text of our law and its application to the affairs of the people.’’

The chief, justice cited some shortcomings in American judicial administration: “As lawyers, we know better than most that there are defects in our administration of justice. With adequate

strengthen our

research we can

leadership in remedying them.

‘We Know Defects*

“Some of these defects we now know. We know that in some parts of our country a citizen cannot have his case tried within four years. We know this situation means a denial of justice to litigants.

“We know also that millions of people are financially unable to obtain adequate legal advice or to protect their rights in the courts, and that this too is a denial of justice.”

Warren mentioned other difficulties: “We know that civil liber Judges and Justices ... ’ from all parts of the nation watch the flag raising ceremonies at the new ABA center. Third from left In front row is -fudge Harold Medina who presided in the first Smith Act trials. Above, is US Chief Justice Earl Warren who delivered the dedication address in Rockefeller chapel.

ties are too often violated and that whenever that occurs, something is chipped away from the foundation of our institutions.

Cites Remnants

“We know that in some states a man charged with a felony is not guaranteed the services of a lawyer. We realize that is a remnant of another day .”

The chief justice then drew attention to defects resulting from lawyer conduct : “We are sensitive to the fact that technicalities, anachronisms and lack of uniformity in the law still beset us in the ascertainment of facts, and that haphazard methods of ap

pointing judges, inadequate court procedures and loose courtroom practices too often cause delay, confusion, inefficiency and consequent expense.

“We are regretfully aware that lawyer conduct often contributes to these unfortunate conditions. As a profession we do not seek to avoid responsibility for it. We will not sweep the dust under tiie rug”

‘Face Problems’

Tn the bar center, Warren said, “we can honestly face all our family problems.” He mentioned that only about one fourth of the nasee page 4

 

WOODWO1

BOOKSTORE

Ready To Serve Your Every Need

RENTAL LIBRARY

NEW TEXT BOOKS USED

CLASS ROOM SUPPLIES

FOUNTAIN PENS - NOTE BOOKS - STATIONERY - LAUNDRY CASES LEATHER CASES - SPORTING GOODS

TYPEWRITERS sold - rented - repaired

PCSTAL STATION

1311 EAST 57th STREET

2 BLOCKS EAST OF MANDEL HALL

STORE HOURS: DAILY 8 A.M. to 6:00 P.M

EVENINGS—Monday, Wednesday, Friday to 9:00 P.M 146692 Page 4 '

THE CHICAGO MAROON

September 24, 1954

Warren Dedicates ABA

(from page 3)

tion’s lawyers were members of the ABA. He urged those who were unaffiliated to join 'the association “in a great crusade” for better legal administration.

Earlier William J. Jameson of Billings, Montana, the ABA president who presided at the dedication, read a letter from President Eisenhower, which said in part:

“The dedication of the American Bar center is an important milestone. Its lasting foundation lies in the devotion of its members to the ideals of their profession: justice and equality to all; and government by law. not men.

‘Influenced Thinking’

“The association has profoundly influenced legal thinking and legislation in this country; it has sought to protect our people against unethical practices and to bring about a better administration of justice.

“Now in a world in which men’s minds are flooded with propaganda, distortion of the truth and demogoguery, your organization faces a new and truly awesome responsibility.

Wishes Success

The President concluded his letter: “As you dedicate this new bar center. I sent you my earnest hope for your heroic success in this great task.”

Henry F. Tenney, vice-chairman of the University’s board of trustees, welcomed the bar center to campus and wished it a “long, happy and prosperous life.”

Robert G. Storey, immediate past president of the bar association and dean of the college of law at Southern Methodist university thanked the University for the gift of land upon which the bar center stands.

members of the ABA house of delegates and board of governors, wearing tuxedos. After them came the chief justices of the 48 states and judges of the US courts of appeal, including Harold Medina, the New York judge who presided in the first Smith act trial.

At the procession’s tail-end were the participants in the dedication, associate Supreme Court Justice Robert H. Jackson, the British home-secretary, Sir David Fyfe, the president-elect of the ABA Loyd Wright of Los Angeles, and Chicago’s mayor, Martin H. Kennelley. •

Judges Bareheaded

All the judges and justices wore judicial robes, but because Warren wore no cap, the other justices marched bare-headed.

Over 2,200 persons filled the chapel for the ceremonies and several hundred others, sitting on folding chairs on the lawn outside, listened over loud-speaers.

Calendar Lists UC Events

AU important University events are listed by the MAROON in the weekly calendar. In addition, any recognized student organization may list its meetings and activities in the calendar.

Student organizations that wish to list events in the calendar must fill information on are available in office.

The deadline

the necessary forms which the MAROON

for listing in

John chapel.

UC’ers Present

B. Thompson, dean of the gave the opening prayer

the calendar is noon of the Wednesday proceeding publication. Events are listed up to one week in advance.

Church Council Delegates

Speak, Preach Here, Also

by Elaine Pom per

Delegates to the World Council of Churches in Evanston found a convenient stopover at the University of Chicago last August. Among these visitors were eight clergymen from Eastern European nations.

The restricted visas of several permitted them only to sleep and eat breakfast at UC before they drove to Northwestern University. The Hungarians and Czechs in the group declined attempts to be interviewed. 

and benediction. Music was provided by Heinrich Fleischer, the chapel organist, and by the UC choir which Fleischer also directed.

Most colorful part of the ceremonies was the procession of legal and judicial dignitaries. Originally, 500 people were scheduled to march from Ida Noyes hall to the chapel, but only 284 arrived.

Leading the procession were presidents of state and local bar associations and chairmen of the

Prominent in the group were Bishop John Peter of the Reformed Church of Hungary and Dr. J. L. Hromadka of the Evangelical Church of the Czech Brethren.

Preaches Sermon

Speaking at Rockefeller Chapel the Reverend Hromadka discussed the diversity of views on political and social matters, “but if we can get together on the dogma of Christ Jesus, all of a sudden we will find our prejudices toward each other disappearing.”

Reverend Hromadka’s view is that disparities in belief may divide the world, but the doctrine of Christ will unite it.

Kraemer Speaks

“With naive directness the Bible discloses that the real meaning of life is the personal encounter between God and man,” said Dr. Hendrik Kraemer, head of the Ecumenical Institute, when he spoke at the University Church of Disciples of Christ.

The Ecumenical Institute is operated by the World Council of Churches in an old Swiss chalet in Bossey. The institute has been visited by nearly 5,000 theologians and laymen who have studied there since 1946.

Dr. Kraemer is also vice-chairman of the International Mission ary Council, the ecumenical group that originally nurtured the World Council.

‘Future Belongs to God’

Another address delivered at UC was by Bishop J. E. Lesslie Newbigin, former Church of Scotland missionary in South Indian. “Probably the weakest spot in the modern Christian’s makeup is that he doesn’t hope confidently enough, said Bishop Newbigin. But the reason for hope or confidence is ‘That God’s beachhead in the world was established with the coming of Jesus Christ The future belong to God,’ so that when looking ahead, ‘we see that, not a question-mark.”

The bishop, who also helped organize the Church of South India in which Angelicans, Presbyterians, Methodists and Congregationalists united in 1947, cited that church as exemplifying what is possible when denominations examine whether separate existence can be justified.

Religion Not Opium

Contrasting with the tone of other speakers Bishop Anders Nygren of Lund, Sweden, warned

that the message of the Evanston assembly must not be taken as “opium for the world.” He reasoned, “The world is full of utopias and false hopes.

“To present Christ as the One who better than anyone else could guarantee the hopes of the world would be to deceive the world.” But there is a connection between Christian hope and worldly tasks, “Just as Christ, the Lord’s servant, took up His service in the world, he who has his hope in Christ has to carry out the service of love in His spirit. Even though he fad, in a world sense, he has not lost hope.”

James R. Lawson, carilloneur of Rockefeller Chapel, extending a ringing welcome to the World Council of Churches, gave several carillon recitals. One of these in honor of Reverend Hromadka was a recital of Czechoslovakian music. Other recitals by Lawson w^re offered for the dedicatory services of the new American Bar Association center on the Midway.

sections and committees of ABA.

the

Holiday Rites at Hillel

128 Law Deans

They were followed by the resentatives of law schools

High holiday services will be conducted this week at the Hillel Foundation, 5715 Woodlawn Ave. At sundown Monday, the Jewish New Year, Rosh Hashana, will begin.

The New Year commences ten days of prayer and introspection terminating on Yom Kippur, the day of atonement.

Yom Kippur is observed with fasting, prayer and penitence for

lerned societies. 128 law school deans attended, led by Erwin Griswald of Harvard law school, who stood out among the crowd in his school’s crimson cape and matador-shaped cap. Edward H. Levi, dean of UC’s law school, marched With this group.

The deans were followed by

rep and sins. A high point of the holiday services is the traditional blowing of the shofar or ram’s horn.

The student services will be conducted by Hillel director Oscar Kenig, and students Seymour Dresnar, Milton Budoff, and Stanley Gevirtz.

New Year services being Monday at 7:45 p.m., Tuesday at 7:30 a.m. and 7:45 p.m. and Wednesday at 9:30 a.m. Yom Kippur services will be held Wednesday, October 6 at 6:30 p.m. and the following day from 9:30 a.m. until sundown.

Tickets may be obtained without cost.

(/sett ^ Hew

TEXTBOOKS

10%-50% Discount

ROOM LINEN SERVICE NOW

AVAILABLE

"OFF CAMPUS*

America's Largest Educational Book House Invites You to Come in and Browse MALATT

BARBERSHOP

across from

Burton - Judson

WEEKDAYS

SATURDAY

9 a.m. - 6 p.m.

WEDNESDAY closed oil doy

1011 E. 61st Street

SRP

WEEKLY RENTAL CHARGES

<W4M

&m&.

Yes, you can save yourself the jexpense of buying and always replacing linen by using this wonderful service Linensof-the-Week. Linens are FURNISHED, LAUNDERED, and DELIVERED for one low price. Rates compare very favorably with laundromat and laundry prices. Economical, convenient. Ask for the student bundle.

For further Information call

EStebrook 9-1200 Suburbs • Enterprise 6363

Sheets—81". 20c Pillowcases.. .9c Bath Towels. 9c Dish Towel's. .4c

Sheets—72". .20c Tablecloths. .18c Face Towels, ,4c Washcloths. 3c

Linens-of-the-Week

A Liberal Campus Political Party

★ Majority Party in the Last All-Campus Election

WELCOMES

ENTERING AND RETURNING STUDENTS

“A Free University in a Free Society'9

>

Ail Fields of Learning are Represented in 6 Floors of Books — 6 Million in Number, New and Used. Get a Student Discount Card and Use it for Savings on All New Books.

WE BUY BOOKS

YEAR ROUND

Our NEW General College Catalog 1954, is Available to You and Your Friends. It Lists Both Text and References Titles.

Pick It Up at Maroon Office 5706 So. University Office

WILCOX & FOLLETT CO

1247 S WAB^SH Ave. at 13th St. Phone HA 7-2840 free Parking September 24, 1954

THE CHICAGO MAROON

Fage 5

UC Medic

Newsbits

Proxy Papa De Lee Says

Some UC doctor, intern or medical student is the father (by proxy) of the disputed baby in the Ohlson case, Dr. Sol T. De Lee, gynecologist at Lying-In hospital, testified this week.

Mr. Ohlson is suing his divorced wife to prevent her from calling the child a “test-tube” baby. Mrs.’ Ohlson submitted to artifical insemination at Lying-In in March, 1950. Ohlson contends the child is his, but Dr. De Lee says this is unlikely.

De Lee added that he has supervised artificial insemination in 200 to 300 cases. Records of donors are not kept, he added.

The case has been recessed until November 4, while lawyers and the judge discuss the possibility of administering lie detector and blood tests to both parties.

Elementary and high-school teachers working toward master’s degrees in the education department are currently being gwen a halftuition remission.

This new rate is offered by the University as a contribution to meet the emergency caused by the shortage of school teachers, Francis S. Chase, education department chairman, said. The remissions have been approved by the board of trustees.

Another move to offset the teacher shortage is being started this fall. This move is a one year course to prepare students for elementary school teaching.

Course study is in an integrated seminar unit. During the first year of its operation the program is limited to 25 students who must have received bachelor’s degrees within the past 15 years, but who have had no previous professional training.

Frosh Rejects Prof's Virility

An older student at a dining table discussion with a new entrant was telling the freshman about her advisor: “He’s very nice. He smokes a pipe and plays tennis well.”

“I’m not interested In his virility.” replied the newcomer, “how is he as an advisor.”

UC Professors Received Honors for their services this month. Joseph D. Lohman (left), lecturer in sociology was awarded the medal of freedom by order of President Eisenhower. Lohman, Democratic candidate for sheriff of Cook county, received the citation for his work in the repatriation of American prisoners of-war in Korea.

Harold C. Urey (right), Martin A. Ryerson distinguished service professor of chemistry, was awarded the honor scroll of the Chicago chapter of the American Institute of Chemists. The scroll, to be presented October 8, is given for contributions to the chemists profession and community. Urey received the honor for “his effective work and active devotion to the thesis that scientists have obligations to society as citizens.”

Jacques Maritain, visiting professor of French philosophy and culture in the committee on social thought, will deliver a two-part lecture and lead a seminar on “Tolerance — its meaning and practical implication.”

Maritain, the noted Thomist philosopher, will give the series on successive Thursdays, October 7 and 14, in Social Sciences 122 from 4 to 6 p.m.

Edward Rosheim Jr., popular instructor of humanities, has succeeded George E. Probst as executive secretary of the UC radio office.

Probst, director since 1944, resigned to become general manager of WBGH, Lowell institute radio station in Boston, Massachusetts.

University Theater will sponsor a reading by Ken Nordine at Mandel Hall Saturday, October 9. Nordine is well known to Chicago televiewers for his readings of horror stories and poetry over WMAQ-TV.

1st Query: 'When's Prom?'

An eager orientation assistant rushed to greet an entering student to help carry her luggage to her room in Green Hall.

Former college dean F. Champion Ward has been appointed to a William Rainey Harper distinguished service professorship. Ward, who resigned as dean last winter, is currently in Pakistan working for the Ford foundation. He will return to UC as a professor of philosophy in 1955.

The new student, frothy formats flung over each arm, bounced out of the clothes CET ORIENTED

University Tap

University at 55th

APPROVED h

filled car and replied to the Oweek assistant’s greeting with “When’s the Wash Prom?”

This same student was the inspiration anecdote, trips to packages

for another campus After making several her room with bulky of shoes, hangers full

of blazers. Bermuda shorts, and assorted grey flannel outfits, and strands of knee-length socks, an exhausted male “O” Board member suggested that all these things she brought were really unnecessary.

At Chicago, all she would need was jeans and a plaid shirt. Over. hearing this, another student interjected, “No, she’ll need jeans and two plaid shirts. One for dress.”

— Cameras — — Photo Supplies

We Corry the Finest

A book published by the University Press has been banned in Pakistan. Nabia Abbot’s “Aisha—the Beloved of Mohammed” contained passages about the prophet and his wife to which the Moslem government objected.

Dale Levy has been elected president of Student Union. William C. Hillman, elected last spring for a full year term, is not returning

to

school this fall.

Sometimes Hollywood can carry realism too far!

Ralph Marcus, professor of Hellenistic culture here received a request from Cecil B. de Milie’s studio in the movie capital to translate the ten commandments into their original writing, as part of the de Mille production “Ten Commandments.”

Marcus complied with the request and sent his work to Hollywood. A few days later he received an urgent request from the studio to “translate the Commandments” back again. It seems motion picture(audiences could only understand the laws in English.

Margaret Filson is the new director of nurses in the nine UC clinics. Miss Filson was previously a research associate in the University of Pittsburgh school of nursing. •

by faculty and students

New! Exclusive!

Paper-Mate

Peas

Paper-Mate TV Sweethearts

Nowl Write legible papen and notes, because Paper-Mate never smears, blots or clogs! Guaranteed leak-proof. No stoppages— more than 70,000 words .without refilling.

Perfect size for purse or pocket

£1994 roptr-Mat* Co,. ln , Culver City. Cl UUr,

FAIR TRADED

for smoother, easier, faster writing

• LEICA

• ROLLEIFLEX

•EXAKTA

• OMEGA

• ZEISS

• BOLEX Stereo Cameras From $5995

Custom Photo Finishing NSA DISCOUNT “Neighborhood Service — Downtown selection”

MODEL CAMERA

Hyde Park's Most Complete Photo and Hobby Shop 1329 E. 55th St. HY 3-9259

Click—point out Click—point retract*

Wide choice of school or college colors

Silvered-Tip Refills in Red, Blue. Green, Black 49<

The downtown branch of the business school has been moved to new, air conditioned quarters at 190 E. Delaware. The school downtown offers approximately two-thirds the number of courses taught on the quadrangles.

Chancellor Kimpton is taking after his predecessor, Robert M. Hutchins, at least as far as laconic messages are concerned. When University vice-president Wendell R. Harrison cabled the Chancellor in Rome asking lengthy questions about some policy matters, he elicited this reply:

“Go ahead. Larry.”

Maurice Goldblatt, chairman of the UC cancer research foundation, last week accepted a $5,000 check from the Herbert A. Gorney Cancer Research foundation.

The check was presented by the foundation’s president, Harry Cohen. The money was the first payment of a pledged $15,000 for research by Dr. E. Trier Morch, professor of anesthesiology.

We are new, just like you We are not part of the official orientation program — But look at all the Services we offer

★ Sandwiches

★ Pop of All Kinds ★ Ice Cream

Mony Flavors This week’s introductory offer

Ham and Potato Salad Sandwiches .

50c

Cheese, Lettuce and AC#* Tomato and we deliver os late as midnight

Come in and shop around

L & C

FOOD MARKET

1028 E. 55th MU 4-9057

University College and the Women’s College board are sponsoring the sixth annual “Know Your Chicago” lecture and tour series. The program is designed to enable “the people of Chicago to become acquainted with the larger functions of their city.”

The tours will include visits to the railroad yards, Manteno state hospital, Chicago defense establishments, visits to libraries, museums and film studios.

A series of lectures by civic leaders will supplement the tours. Admission to the lectures is $5 for the series or $1.50 for each of the five lectures. Cost for each trip will be $2.

The lectures will be given at Kimball hall, 306 S. Wabash.

William C. Norby, vice president of Harris Trust and Savings bank, will deliver a series of six lectures, “Common sense for the individual investor.”

The series, held on successive Wednesdays from September 29 through November 10 is sponsored by University College. Tickets for the series cost $5.

Norby will speak in the Woodrow Wilson room of the Chicago Council on Foreign Relations, 116 S. Michigan, from 7:30 to 9 p.m.

Robert J. Braidwood of the Oriental institute and the department of anthropology, and Mark G. Inghram of the physics department have been promoted to the rank of full professor.

Mrs. Clara Willoughby, assistant to the University College dean, has been appointed chairman of the YWCA loop center committee for 1954-55. She will head the volunteer committee which directs the center’s program.

Ray E. Brown, superintendent of UC clinics, was elected president of the American Hospital association at the group’s 56th annual convention this month.

see page 6 ►age 6

THE CHICAGO MAROO N September 24, 1954

Issued ogee weekly by the publisher, The Chicago Maroon, at the publication ©Mice,3706 South University Avenue, Chicago 37, Illinois. Telephones: Editorial Office, Midway 3-0800, Ext. 1010; Business and Advertising Offices, Midway 3-0800, Ext. 1009. Distributed free of charge, and subscriptions by mail, $3 per year. Business Office hour#; 1 to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday.

Allen R. Janger Richord E. Word

editor-in-chief managing editor

Staff for this issue:

News editor: Paul Hoffman

Supplement editor:

Joy Burbach Editorial staff:

Robert Quinn Diane Epstein Jack Burbach Diane Oenning Spike Pinney Jan Majde John Twomey Mitchell Slein Jerry Ex Elaine Pomper Les Foster Al Fortier Alice Bloom

Advertising staff:

Richard Ward Joy Burbach Jack Burbach

Editors Column

Freedom Our Tradition

Service Our Motto

Each year it is traditional for the Maroon to add its welcome to the hundreds already received by the entering students. In our welcome to you, the entering students, forgive if we talk more about ourselves than you.

We do not yet know you, except for a list of names of new Students and occasional glimpses at orientation activities.

With this, the first issue of the Maroon for the 1954-55 academic year, we are introducing ourselves to you and you to the University.

The University of Chicago, now your University for four, or perhaps more years, has one tradition that we feel stands above all others. This is freedom of inquiry in all intellectual pursuits in both academic and extra-curricular areas.

It is this tradition far more than two year college programs, that has caused wide misunderstanding of your University. We believe that it this however tradition that has made Chicago one of the foremost centers of education in the world.

In the spirit of this tradition the College program of the University has undergone continual evolution. In the spirit of this tradition students and faculty members feel free to express their views on all subjects. In short, we believe that it is this tradition that has attracted so many great scholars of the world to the University of Chicago.

The Maroon is proud to share the role of maintaining this tradition.

The Maroon as the only newspaper at the University has a Special role in this tradition — to serve the interests of the UC student community.

In the past the Maroon has spoken for specific needs of Students such as lowering educational costs. Maroon stories resulted in the lowering of prices of college syllabi which are published by the University Press. We have not yet succeeded in lowering tuition rates.

The Maroon has stood for equal rights for all students and Will not accept any advertising which discriminates against any student on a religious or racial basis.

The Maroon believes that the widest possible coverage of Utudent activities is a basic obligation to the student body. With this in mind, the Maroon publishes with this issue its first twenty-page paper in more than three years — an issue Which tries to outline the student role in University affairs.

This is your newspaper as much as ours. Membership on the Maroon staff is open to any University student — the only requirement being interest.

Opinions expressed in the editorials of the Maroon are the Opinions of the majority of the members of the Maroon staff. All major policy decisions undertaken in the name of the Maroon again represent the majority view of staff members. The editor is elected by all staff members, not a small editorial board.

There is no board of publications, so familiar at other universities, standing over the Maroon. You, all the students of the University, are the only board of publications we know or recognize. The column is open to any student — or other member of the University community. Letters are encouraged from students who have a particular problem er viewpoint which they would like to express to the Uni verity community.

This, in brief, is how we believe the Maroon strives to be a part of the most important of University tradtions.

Allen R. Janger

Richard E, Ward

Activities Night Sponsored For Entering Crads

This year for the first time divisional students will have their own activities night and get-together on Monday evening in Ida Noyes hah at 7:30 p.m. In past years entering graduate have not had an official welcome to extracurricular activities at the university.

Ruth O. Mc Carn. assistant dean of students, will pour for the event and the deans of students of all the divisions and schools will be present. The newly initiated Student Government reception will be free, including refreshments.

Divisional students are also welcome at the Friday night Activities night for college students.

Pete Seeger will return to UC with his banjo and more Folk songs on October 30. Last year his two appearances left hundreds turned away at the Mandel Hail boxoffice. Seeger's concert will be held to raise funds for the UC National Student Association delegation.

Newsbits

A new aspect of the orientation program is being initiated Monday night at Ida Noyes hell Student Government is sponsoring a divisional night — a genera! reception and get together for graduate students. Students will meet informally with faculty members and officers of departmental clubs. Admission is free and refreshments will be served without charge.

David Reisman, professor in the college, graces the cover of TIME magazine this week. TIME’S profile discusses his work in the Social Sciences 2 course and in his books, "The Lonely Crowd” and "Individualism Reconsidered.”

Undergraduate students with four or fewer comps remaining who are interested in the tutorial studies program are requested to register as soon as possible with J. P. Netherton, Goodspeed 205.

Max Epstein, one of the University’s benefactors, died this summer at the age of 79.

Epstein, a trustee of the University, had given $1,000,000 for the building of Goodspeed hall and funds for the out-patient clinic named after him.

Dr. Maud Slye, 75, retired pathologist, died last week. Dr. Slye was famous for her work in cancer research.

The University of Chicago is getting into the fight against polio. Billings laboratories along with those at eleven other universities are currently studying blood samples of children taking part in summer polio vaccine tests.

Coast Guard boats came to the rescue of four Billings hospital staff members September 1 when their boat capsized two miles off 73rd street in the lake. The rescued mariners were Drs. Peter Hayden, William C. Hemenway, Thomas Beaman and medical student Robert Allen.

Governor William G. Stratton has named Chancellor Kimpton to a special state commission to study higher education in Illinois. The group is charged with studying overcrowding in colleges and universities. Major Lenox R. Ijohr, director of the museum of science and industry, is chairman of the commission.

The Chicago Tumor Institute and an adjacent building have been sold by the University to an unnamed purchaser at an undisclosed price.

The University acquired the property at Oak and State last spring. The institutes facilities have been moved to the UC clinics.

The institute was founded in 1931 by UC’s Dr. Ludwig Hektoen.

Honored

Legend Debunked

High over the first landing of Ida Noyes Hall hangs the portrait of the pretty young lady who served as a namesake for UC’s women’s club. One hesitates to say how many times groups of enu-ring students have stood on that landing and heard from their student guides the tragic story of Ida Noyes.

Ida Noyes, the story runs, was a br ight and beautiful young lady ("just look at the picture * who went to a college where membership in sororities was important (a sharp intake of breath). For some reason Miss Noyes was not accepted by the sororities • a knowing glance). She was very depressed by her rejection, so depressed in fact that she committed suicide. ( Oh the waste.”)

La Verne Noyes, the young lady’s uncle, was so incense*! by these events that he endowed the University of Chicago with a good deal of money, Including funds for the building of Ida Noyes Hall, on the condition that no sorority would be permitted on the campus of the University for fifty years. For this reason, the narrative concluded, there are no sororities at the University of Chicago.

The tour would then pass on, leaving in the minds of entering students a new example of sorority snobbery and a picture of righteousness triumphant on the campus of the University of Chicago.

So it was that in 1950 the MAROON printed a story quoting officials of the Tnter-Club council as not planning to affiliate with national sororities; although, the fifty year ban had ended,

It is a beautiful story full of moral teachings. There is only one difficulty. It isn’t true. Ida Noyes did not dip in sorrow over her rejection by a sorority. Uncle La Verne left the building as a memorial not as an instrument of extortion and there has never been a ban on sororities.

SEND THE MAROON TO PARENTS OR FRIENDS

I enclose $ at $3 00 per

subscription. Please send to MY Septemkf 24, 1954 THE CHICAGO MA ROOM

P*H 7

UC Supports Three Publications

Review Seeks Student Works Y™£Sd Frisky

Van Allen Bradley, literary editor for the Chicago Daily News, recently described the Young and frisky might be the Chicago Review as a “scholarly review published at the University of Chicago.” Bradley erred words to describe Cap and Gown, in two respects. The magazine, according to F. N. Karmatz, editor-in-chief, is hardly “schol- uc’s yearbo°k. it’s post war hisarly,” pripting between its Covel’s poetry, fiction, articles, reviews, and other materials of fairly general interest. He also did not apparently know that the Review is put out by students as an extra-curricular activity.

In the two years since its reviva!, the Review has become an activity carrying with it a good deal of “prestige.” The magazine has rated praise from Chancellor Kimpton and favorable reviews throughout the country. Its circulation has risen steadily to its present 6,000, making it one of the top “little magazines” in the country.

The policy of the magazine was to print nnly student work. While this rule has relaxed, the ratio of

Chess Club Seeks Girl Chess-Mates

“If any female desires to join she will be welcome by all,” Robert M. Shapiro, president of the UC Chess club said. “In the past all the members have been male. There is only one requirement for

membership, an Interest in the game of chess.” The Chess club has about 20 active members with an average age of 18, Shapiro added.

Several tournaments are conducted each year by the club, both “rapid transit” (ten second) and regular. In addition, the club is the source of players for the University team which represents the school in matches throughout the year.

For those who are Interested in improving their chess game, competent instruction will be offered, Shapiro promised. Members play as often as every day or a little as one night a week, meeting in one of the Burton-Judson libraries. The club has a rapid transit clock for fis e and ten second play, two tournament chess clocks, and a few chess sets.

Student Government Functions, History Told

Student Government is the only democratically elected, all-campus student organization at the University of Chicago. From its inception in 1947, Student Government has served as a medium for the expression of campus opinion to the Administration, and has developed an ever-increasing program of student services.

In 1950 the student body and the Administration turned over to SG the responsibil ity of recognizing student organizations and

of enacting the regulations of the Student Code.

SG provides direct money-saving services and conveniences for the student body, including the Student Service Center with a book exchange, tickets, loan and mimeographing services.

Information Rendered to Students

A few- days ago, entering students received copies of the Student Handbook, a Student Government publication containing information about student activities. the University community, and other information of interest to new students.

In a few weeks another. SG publication, the Student Directory, listing the names, addresses, and phone numbers of all registered students will be available. Tonight in Ida Noyes Hall, Student Government will cosponsor the annual Activities Night, where students may become more familiar with many student activities. A similar event, where divisional students may meet faculty members informally, will be held for the first time next Monday night.

SG Offers Tours

As another service to new stustudent writers remains high and has been increasing.

F. N. Karmatz

Departmental Organizations

Foster Academic Friendships

The Art club does no painting, and the Business club handles no big business. These clubs are departmental organizations formed for social and professional meetings of students in the business school and the art department.

Both of these groups meet on Friday afternoons, but one difference can be noted. The art students meet for tea, but the business students drink coffee.

Most of the departments and schools in the University have such a club, some of them

emphasizing the social contacts, some of them serving more academic purposes.

Ann Buckeridge. retiring president of the Nursing Education club, says, “This organization attempts to provide a social-professional opportunity for its members through periodic meetings which are designed to provide professional as well as social communication,” a statement which might well fit many of these clubs.

The Social Service Administration club, according to a spokesman of the group, takes stands on political issues pertaining to social work. It also has regularly

dents, SG is providing in the next few days, again for the first time, special tours of the campus and city.

Considerable savings in money can be made through the Student Government (NS A) Discount Service, available at many business establishments in the neighborhood, and the three buying services under contract to the Government.

An outstanding SG project is the Foreign Exchange program with Frankfort University. Set up to promote international understanding among students of the two countries, the program has provided several German and American students the opportunity of “exchanging places” for a year.

SG Works for Freedom

SG has always been concerned with problems of civil liberties and academic freedom, and has established standing committees to deal with each of these areas. In 1951 and 1953 SG took the initiative in calling All-Campus Civil Liberties Committees to work against the passage by the Illinois Legislature of bills which threatened fre academic expression.

SG has worked to promote racial integration in the University

Present policy provides that “a substantial portion of (the magazine’s) space is reserved for student writing.” But the editors also will not forget that they “are chiefly concerned with quality.”

Anyone may submit manuscripts. Membership on the staff will not enhance one’s chances to get into print; it may do quite the contrary. Manuscripts should be type written, with the author’s name on every page, and a selfaddressed, stamped envelope for return in case of rejection. The editors would also like an attached sheet from students containing their division, department, field of duty, and any pertinent or interesting information about themselves or their previous publications

scheduled guest lecturers who are prominent in the field of social service, and bridge parties.

Clubs welcome interested students

Not all of these clubs restrict their membership to students in the sponsoring department — a student who has a real interest in philosophy will be welcomed into the Antinomies, the philosophy club, although George D. O’Brian, triumvirate member of the group warns, “A general familiarity with the history of philosophical discussion would seem to be indispensible.”

Similarly, the Business club membership is open to those in

neighborhood. It has cooperated with the Southeast Chicago Commission and the Administration to rehabilitate the University community.

Through SG, the campus is a member of the National Student Asociation (NSA), a group formed in the Reynolds Club in 1947 with over 300 member schools. Elections are held in the Spring Quarter for representatives to the regional and national congresses of NSA.

Students desiring to serve in the Student Government and on National Student Association delegation usually join one of the campus political groups. At present there are two, the Independent Students League and the Student Representative Party.

ISL Is Majority Party

The Independent Students League (ISL), present majority party in SG, was formed in 1948 and until 1952 was always the majority party in the Student Government. In the autumn of 1952 the Student Representative party was formed and gained the majority in SG election. ISL regained its majority in last SG election.

All campus elections for UC

tory goes back a mere two years making it the youngest and fewest traditioned of any other student publication.

As a result the yearbook has no

set style or format and moved from modern format, in its first issue, to a conservative one last year.

The yearbook tries to present a coherent picture of the University between the covers of one volume. Last year the volume featured articles by the deans of the various divisions, and schools, and the college, a review of the year, a special article on football, and a gossipy humor supplement called the Phoenix which contained such valuable information as the recipe for Mrs. Kimpton’s favorite punch. This is another year, another editor (Mike Rodgers), and another staff; one can hardly give promises what the book will contain this year.

No experience is required of prospective staff members. Headquarters are Reynolds club basement.

fields related to business who are interested in attending the weekly coffee hours at which speakers are heard.

In some of the departments, all students are members; Marto Ballesteros, president of the Political Economy club says, “All graduate students in the department of economics are members, automatically,” while in the graduate library school club, membership is open to all persons registered in the library school and president James Tydeman states, “For practical purposes, this membership is the entire student body of the school.”

delegates to the National Student Association annual Congress are held each April. Last spring the SRP and independent students who were endorsed by SRP received the majority of the NSA posts. The preceeding election for NSA all brought ISL majorities to the NSA delegation.

President States ISL Resolution

According to Al Fortier, ISL President, “the Independent Students League is interested in implementing student opinion and satisfying student needs.” But “efforts to take stands of principle without firmly realistic goals and methods do not produce results,” according to Bruce Larkin, ISL vice-president and present chairman of the National Executive Committee of NSA. “For future,” stated Fortier, “ISL belives that a bold and constructive program, realistically carried out by a team of capable people will augment the stature and significance of the Government, thereby increasing its effectiveness in serving and representing the student body.”

ISL regularly holds caucuses at Burton-Jurson Court on Sunday evenings. Miss Joli Lasker, treasurer of ISL, stated that “all students interested in learning about

Reporters!

The ‘Maroon’

Wants You!

The main avenue by which news of the University is disseminated is also the most controversial, most closely watched, most independent, most used and frequently most cursed organization on the campus. With a staff of almost 50 people the Chicago Maroon is also one of the largest.

According to Allen Janger, editor-in-chief, the only real Maroon tradition is the freedom from interference and censorship which has existed from its very inception. The administration does not see the paper before it is printed and distributed.

The Maroon is the most widely read UC student publication, having a weekly circulation of over 8,500. Cynics attribute this to the fact that copies are distributed free. The cost of printing the paper is defrayed primarily by advertising. Although the Maroon is a weekly at present, many staff members hope wistfully that the paper will someday return to daily publication.

Anyone may join the Maroon staff and work as a writer, reporter, photographer, copy-reader, cartoonist, commercial artist, layout artist, bookkeeper, ad salesman, and/or financier. Experience is not a pre-requisite. There is a three-week apprenticeship period for new members and certain minimum work requirements for continued membership.

Maroon Staffers Meet

The first regular meeting of the .MAROON staff will be held Monday, October 11 at 3:30 p.m. Prospective and former staff members are invited to attend.

Next Monday at 4 p.m. there will be an informal meeting for all former staff members, who wish to remain on the MAROON.

ISL are invited to come to our caucuses.”

SRP Enriches University Life

Dave Hartley, vice-president of SRP described its purposes as “providing a means for liberal social action on the student level, especially through participation as one of the major political parties representing the student body in campus politics.”

SRP enriches University life, according to Hartley, by “sponsoring several important cultural events each year, for example Pete Seeger and Paul Robeson concerts. The group provides the student body with opportunities to hear speakers often denied a platform.

“SRP sponsors numerous campus-wide discussions of current problems such as academic freedom. Students have the opportunities to present the political views that they sincerely and maturely believe and to work for their fruition.”

SRP also holds caucuses in Burton-Jurson, and claims a membership of 75 students. According to Hartley, “any student may belong.” The only “skill” required is “a desire and ability to implement decisions made by a majority of the members.” Page 8

THE CHICAGO MAROON

September 24, 1954

Outing Club Answers Call of the Wild, Sponsors Weekend and Interim Ski, Canoe, Camping Trips

Students who can’t stand to go home over interims, or who just like outings, will find on campus an organization ready to serve them, the Outing club. The club business is ‘‘to sponsor special events, and we think they are very special—two and three week vacation trips to some of the most beautiful parts of the country for a cost between $60 and $100, ski 1 rips to the high mountains of Colorado for nine days to two weeks for $100 (including transportation, meals, and lodging), short week-end canoeing and skiing trips for $12 to $20, week-end

Honor Students

camping trips for $5 or less,” according to Dotsie Earle, a former chairman of the group.

Students who are interested in mountaineering will find another group, the UC Mountaineering club, whose basic aim is to bring together all of those interested in climbing and to acquaint them with the techniques and practice of safe mountaineering. The group also wishes to introduce more students to the sport of climbing, and make available books, periodicals, and pictures dealing with the sport, according

to David Solzman, the club.

The Outing club includes alumni,

president of

membership faculty, and

Restricted membership and secret functions characterize Nu Pi Sigma, Iron Mask, and Owl & Serpent, the three UC honorary student organizations.

Nu Pi Sigma is mainly a discussion group whose members are invited from the ranks of women campus leaders only by the unanimous vote of active members and alumnae; like its male counterpart, Owl & Serpent, Nu Pi Sigma rarely acts as a group directly but effects the university community through the functioning of the organizations which its members represent.

Elected each spring on the basis of outstanding participation in student activities, the men of Iron Mask try to co-ordinate student leadership in the College through a yearly series of meetings and social programs.

friends of students, in addition to students. Members are known among themselves for the tradition of the considerable number of couples who get married after having first met on an Outing club trip. “If you ski for a week together or take a week-long pack trip with someone in the mountains, you get to know him much better than many people know their friends,” Miss Earle said of the friendships formed.

The idea, for the first big Outing club trip was dreamed up on Wash Prom night in 1948, according to Miss Earle. The trip took place over the spring interim that year—to Florida for nine days with 63 people at a cost of about $45 for all expenses. Trips since then have been as far away as Jasper National Park in Canada and as near as Stagg Field.

Housing Councils Cope With Day-To-Day

Problems of Pre-Fab, Dormitory Living

Problems arise throughout the year in the University housing facilities, and resident organizations have been formed to deal with these problems. The C-group women’s dorms and the Burton Judson men’s residences have formed larger councils representing the entire group of houses, while such houses as Beecher and such housing groups as the prefabs have their own councils.

Earl Elliott, president of the Prefab council, notes that his group “Seeks to coordinate information on crime, community

health, building repairs, and the overall community-wide housing prospects.”

The B-J and Inter - dormitory groups sponsor social events in addition to serving as gripe centers for the residents and the housing officials.

Activities of Beecher house include weekly gatherings with practicing members of the legal profession and parties throughout the year. All members of the law school who live in Beecher, the men’s dorm of that school, are members of the house and “the house meets infrequently at irregular intervals, as the need meetings arises,” according

for to

“Mar-o-o-o-o-o-n fight!

Rah! Rah!

Rah! Rah! Rah!

Team! Team! Team!”

Leading this and other cheers at UC basketball games will be members of the Pep Club, who serve as cheerleaders, publicity organizers and rally leaders for those activities concerned with sports on campus. Members of the club also go to the games to cheer the teams on, and last year some of them played in a band organized to perform at games.

The Pep Club had its informal beginning in 1953, the year the basketball team ended their famous 45-game losing streak by beating Navy Pier 65-52, following a pep rally in which several hundred students marched across campus in a shouting, band-led procession.

Graduate UC'ers

Find Relaxation

In Self-Seeking

Diverting the wives of graduate students from their afternoon floor - scrubbing, washing, baby feeding, and home permanents is the Dames Club, an organization which creates a community of student wives and which gives them a social comradeship comparable to the academic ones their husbands have.

An admittedly self satisfying organization, according to Helene Nelson, the club’s president, the Dames Club is designed to benefit its own members rather than the university as a whole; the Dames, do, however, plan to sponsor some sort of civic enterprise during the coming year. In addition to their monthly meetings the Dames have sewing, athletic, and language lessons, bazaars, openhouses, pot-luck suppers, style shows, and dinner-dances.

First organized at the University of Chicago in 1900, the Dames have now spread to universities all over the country, and there is now a National Association of University Dames.

past president Marshall Susler. Officers are elected by the house, as they are by most of the University houses.

Those elected to serve on the Prefab council have an opportunity to express their concerns and to help aid the group, according to Elliot, a statement which holds for all the councils, An-Shih Cheng, past president of the Interdorm council, says that a representative may benefit from her associations with other members of the committee by learning to work in concerted effort with others. “She may become aware of the problems as seen from the administration and house heads’ point of view,” Miss Cheng adds.

'"Disc SALE

All Westminster Records

September New Releases Included

Open Weekdays Until 10

Saturdays Until 5

Students' Favorite

LAUNDROMAT

For the Post Six Years

1. Efficient Laundromat

Service

2. Shirts - Flat Work All Laundry Services

3. Lowest Prices in

Hyde Pork

Come In and See Our Newly Remodeled Store with the LATEST Equipment

UNIVERSITY LAUNDROMAT 1376 E. 55th St. PL 2-9097

►

O-Board Works To Aid Students In Adjustment

O-Board functions have by now become familiar to most entering students as far as orientation of new students is concerned. Besides these duties, however, Orientation Board holds discussions on problems which they consider important, and works for better understanding by all students of the educational philosophy of the University. Discussions open to students on vocational and divisional goals are sometimes held by the group.

Membership is limited by the University to 15, but applications are open to any registered undergraduate. A six week training course is given for all applicants, who are chosen on the basis of interest, ability in mixing, ability to communicate well, and extent of ability to understand the undergraduate program, according to Carolyn Eggert, past secretary. Membership in the group will help to increase these skills, Miss Eggert feels.

Hold Card Class

Students who wish to answer the inevitable call, "fourth for bridge!” when it echoes through the halls and houses of the university during the year may sign up now for a series of six bridge lessons.

For six consecutive Tuesday evenings from 7 until 9 beginning Oct. 12, Mrs. Josephine Walters Smith, certified contract teacher, will explain the arts and intricacies of bridge in Ida Noyes Hall. The fee is $3.00 for students and $5.00 for nonstudents connected with the university.

STUDENT DIVISIONAL NIGHT

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27

IDA NOYES HALL

Deans of Students

Student Activities

Free Refreshments

Sponsored by SG

ITALIAN

FIESTA

PIZZERIA

Large $2 Special Pizza

1/4 Sausage 1A Anchovy 1/4 Pepper 1/4 Mushroom

1437 E. 67th MU 4 .’^

TABLE SERVICE

<

FREE DELIVERY TO U. of C. STUDENTS

Quick Courteous Service

7 Days o Week

DELIVERY SERVICE

5 P.M. to 3 A.M September 24, 1954

THE CHICAGO MAROON

<*H 9

Captivated Listeners charmed by Third Herd at SU's Wash Prom.

Seven Permanent Departments,

Ad-hoc Committees Plan SU Program for '54-35 Season

“If you hate people the Union is not for you’’ stated Joli Lasker, vice-president of Student Union, a 200-member student organization which guarantees the University an abundance of weekly social, cultural, and recreational activities.

Already set for SU’s 1954-55 season are daily request hi-fi concerts at the Reynold’s club, student-faculty discussions, several C-dances, a student art exhibition, ski trips, bowling and bridge tournaments, and, of course the annual Washington Promenade.

Divide Work

Under president Dale Levy and vice-president Joli Lasker the responsibility for the planning

and carrying out of these activities is assigned to any of seven permanent SU departments or to ad hoc committees established at

various times during the year.

A student joining SU is free to choose both in what department he would like to work and how

Phillips New Head of UT and Forum

much active time he would like to spend working in it.

The decorations, publicity, location, band, tickets — everything short of floor waxing — must be

Marvin Phillips, a former teacher, news editor, producer, and director, has assumed the directorships of University Theater and Student Forum.

Phillips fills the UT position formerly held by Otis Imboden and the Forum position vacated by Terry Sandalow. •

considered in detail by members of SU’s dance department, which plans SU’s al Lcampus dances.

Dances Planned

Two Autumn quarter C-dances must be attended to soon as well

Tells Background

After receiving his MA from Michigan State Phillips taught public speaking there in 1951. During his army career he formed a theater group at Fort Leonard Wood and presented Moliere before 5.000 troops: in Korea he worked with informational and educational services.

Returning from Korea, Phillips worked as news editor for WILS, a Lansing station, and as a director in summer stock. He came to Chicago to form a small professional theater group and was finally lured into his UC positions.

Here Seven Years

University Theater, beginning its first season under Phillips, is in its seventh year as a campus organization although a university theater in some fotm has existed at UC since 189G.

No calendar of productions has been drawn up as yet for this season. “It is impossible to plan without a full knowledge of the talent and facilities we’ll have on hand,” stated Phillips. “The plays must be chosen to suit the talent, not the talent manipulated to suit the plays.”

Some plays which Phillips would like to see tried, however, arc Aristophones’ The Clouds, Yerma’s new poetic drama The Barren and The Enchanted by Jean Giraudou with music by Francis Poulenc. Also of interest to Phillips are Bernard Shaw’s

✓ Adjustable Wall Pull-Up

✓ Lamp Only $12.95

With finger tip control. A touch of the knob and you have it where you want it. Glides up and down. Swings left or right on polished brass arm. Extends 24" front the wall. Smartly styled 14" metal shade available in jet black, forest green, chalk white or dull brass with fiber glass no-glare diffuser, lakes two bulbs up to 75 watts each.

/ Hermans

/ 935 E. 55th St. Midway 3-70<

5 “Big enough to serve you. Small enough to want to”

 

No! Never we must not give diplomatic recognition to Red China, bombastically claims this Student Forum debater J DIIY (LEADERS I

| Welcome ^imleiils |

I CAMEO CLEANERS f

j 1309 E. 57th FA 4-9879 $

? 1147 E. 55th FA 4-9848 *

^Show Your Ilf For Discount <

£ ?

I BLACK & HORCHER

? 6330 S. Dorchester ’ PL 2-1234 ❖

“We Pick Ip and Deliver" £

EXCLUSIVE CLEANERS

E. 57th Ml 3-0608 J

E. 57th Ml 3-0602 J

(i Same Day Service” X

J 1442 £ 1329

i

Simpleton of the Unexpected Isles and Awakening of Spring by German impressionist Franc Wedekind.

Readings Planned

In addition to one major production each quarter UT will also present frequent play readings. Productions are presented “in the round” and w i t h- conventional staging. •

UT welcomes into its ranks all students with an interest in theater — experienced or inexperienced who might serve as performers, artists, writers, techni cians, or photographers, or who would just like to learn more about theater and drama by reading and enjoying plays. Serious students of the theater can expect to contribute 15 to 20 hours a week during a production schedule: those with interest but little free time are welcome to offer whatever time they can afford.

Tryouts Given

Open tryouts for members and non-members are held before each major production.

UT will hold its first open meeting Friday, Oct. 1, at 7:15 p.m. in the Reynold’s Club Theater. Phillips will discuss interests in UT at his office, Reynold’s Club 309, from 3 to 5 every afternoon.

Tell Meeting

The first open meeting of Student Forum will be held Monday, Oct. 4, at 3:30 p.m. in the Reynold's Club Theater; both former Forum members and any student

with an interest in learning about the Forum may attend.

“In a university such as this where, although the#e is not an organzied speech department, a high premium is placed on the ability to form and discuss intelligent views, the experience participants in Student Forum obtain is particularly valuable,” said Phillips.

Lessons in verbal communication will be given by Phillips himself to Forum members during the coming year; this will be the first time in Forum history that a professional instructor will have led these sections.

Topic Given

During the year two man teams will be sent for debates at several midwestern colleges; this season’s national debate topic is “Resolved: that the United States should grant diplomatic recognition to Red China.” Debaters are

prepared for these contests by extensive individual research and by suggestions of other Forum members.

Forum members are sehedued to visit Michigan State, Wisconsin. Purdue, Michigan, Illinois, and D e P a u w universities and most Chicago schools. Debaters from Oxford, New York University, and India will visit UC undpr Forum sponsorship.

The Forum discussion groups will also hold a series of discussion programs before women’s clubs, PTA groups, and student bodes of Chicago schools. Plans for radio and television work for Forum members are also being considered.

as plans for the February 19 Washington Promenade (popularly known as the Wash Prom), the biggest all-campus dance of UC’s social season, according to Miss Lasker.

Training in silk-screen, mimeographing, dittographing, and photo-offset makeup techniques is offered in the SU’s publicity workshop to anyone interested in working for the publicity department.

Produce Publicity

This department provides posters and other advertising media as per instructions of other SU departments, and members working with design, printing, and processing are expected to do no more than produce vast quantities of painted and written material at a moment’s notice.

Working at a similarly hectic rate is the staff of the SU Forecast, a 4 page information sheet which previews and reviews SUsponsored and other-sponsored social. cultural, and recreational * events.

Jobs Open

Forecast currently has many openings for both experienced and inexperienced students as reporters, ad sellers, artists, copy and rewriters, and make-up men.

Swimming pool, gym. bowling alley, card rooms, table tennis, television, lounges, and meeting rooms are among the recreational facilities available at Ida Noyes Hall; it is the job of the SU Ida Noyes council to see that these facilities remain available to as great a number of students as possible.

The council also sponsors bridge and bowling tournaments and other SU Ida Noyes special events.

Nationality Clubs Admit Everyone, Stress Cultures

Among'the UC student organizations, there are a few intended primarily for students of certain national backgrounds, such as the Japanese Students association and the University of Chicago Polish club. Membership in both of these groups is open to anyone interested in joining, however.

Raymond Sanders, vice-president of the Polish club, says of the organization, “The club brings before the eye of the campus the events in the city that portray part of the Polish culture and ideas that have developed from Americanization. It tries to round out the campus calendar with a variety that satisifies the current need.”

Activities include cultural and social affairs and raising money for scholarships “for the cause of advancing the education of the Polish people in America,” according to Sanders.

The Japanese Student association “promotes the mutual friendship and assistances ar Rong Japanese students on campus,” according to the 1953-1954 secretary of the group, Tadao Fujii. Activities include orientation for the newcomers, informal parties, occasional lectures or meetings “for the visiting VIPs from Japan,’’ according to Fujii. Page 10

September 24, 1954

Student Services Offer

T^ Tests to Theater Tickets

It has been said that a university is more than an institution of learning. In that spirit, the University of Chicago offers its student body many and varied services with which it can solve most of its problems.

Some of these are well known and patronized accordingly. Others are not familiar to the average student but are of equal value. The student may find it to his advantage to investigate all of them.

Harper library forms the nucleus of a widely scattered library system. Many of the departments of the library are especially located to be convenient for students in special fields. The library is generally open from 9 a m. to 6 p.m. with some of the sections also open during the evenings. Further information about the library is available in a 33 page booklet which can be obtained at the libraries.

Offer Jobs

Students wanting jobs will find the employment office at 956 E. 58th St. Patricia Metcalf is the director of the office, which is open from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Wives of students can also get jobs through the employment office, although they are limited to jobs on the campus.

Those people who first want to determine what they are best suited for before looking for a job should go to the Vocational Guidance center in room 305 of the Administration building.

Vocational guidance is open from 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. and is under the supervision of Robert C. Woellner. It is available to both students and nonstudents. However, students are given a special rate.

Give Answers

The University of Chicago oper U C Tradition

Shunning Tradition

by Mitchell Slein

There is scarcely an educational institution that does not have its own share of tradition. However, the University of Chicago (never say U. of C.) has made a tradition of having none. At first, this statement may sound a little like double talk, but it is not.

Once, in the dim dark past, UC had many and varied and hallowed traditions. Then 17..^

ates an information center on the first floor of the Administration Building. Here are catalogues, calendars, maps, and all official notices. University Information operates a lost and found, which

is the all lost course mation

eventual resting place of articles on campus, and a file, which contains inforon all courses, including

schedule corrections.

Addresses of students and faculty are available, as are answers to various questions. If the information desk doesn’t know, they will direct you to someone who will, when possible.

Every student entering the university must take a physical examination. This takes place at the Student Health Service located in Billings Hospital, where students who are ill are treated also. It is open from 8:45 to 11:30 in the mornings, and 1:15 to 4:30 in the afternoons. Mondays through Fridays, from often with ority.

On Saturday the hours are 8:45 to 11:30 a.m. There is a long wait, although those

flu are given pricolds or

SG

The Student

Serves

Services Center is

located in the basement of the Reynolds club. It is a catchall for all services operated by the Student Government (SG). Among its many services are the dispensing of N.S.A. discount lists and cards and student loans that are given to students upon presentation of validated I D. cards.

The loans are for up to $10 for two weeks and are at a flat ten cent fee with a fine of 25 cents per week or fraction thereof for non-payment.

A ticket service that charges 15 cents for off-campus tickets and has no charge for tickets to campus events, is also located at the Student Services Center. The ticket agency has telephone arrangements with the opera house and orchestra hall.

The most widely used service of the Student Service Center is the book exchange. Students set their own prices, which are automatically lowered at set intervals if the book does not sell at the original rate. After 18 months, an unsold book becomes the property of the center unless withdrawn by the owner. The center collects a fee of ten per cent. A nonprofit mimeograph service is also run by the center.

List Hours

The student service center will be open from 11:30 a.m. to 2:30 p.m., and 3:30 to 5:30 p.m., during the first and last two weeks of the quarter. During the remainder of the quarter, it will be open from 11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. and 3:30 to 4:30 p.m.

For special occasions Yellow cabs can be called from university phones. Western Union has an office on the first floor of the administration building. The office is open from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.

The United States government operates two postal substations in the university area. One is in the University Bookstore and the other is a Woodworths Bookstore. The hours at the first are from 8 to 5 p.m. Monday-Friday and to noon Saturday. The substation at Woodworths is open from

^Z25SSj S53E

STUDENT HEALTH BILLINGS

"Your ID cord, please!

8 a.m. to 6 p.m. All postoffice services are offered, except the handling of foreign packages.

Hun Desk

There is an information desk on the main floor of the Reynolds club, which handles all mail for

the Reynolds many services information on ities, handling

club. Among its are giving out of the building facilthe billiard room.

selling the Chicago Review and Cap and Gown, and giving away campus maps and the like. The desk also has charge of the magazines for the lounges and sells cigarettes.

The university barber shop is also in the Reynolds Club. Located in the basement, its hours are Monday through Friday, 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. and Saturdays from 8 a.m. to 1 p.m. The shop boasts six registered barbers, and is owned and operated by the university. The barbers cut men's, women’s, a n d children’s hair. There is also a shoeshine service.

The barber shop is air conditioned and sells candy and cigarettes.

Arrange Trips

John Stocks Travel Agency is a representative for all steamship lines, domestic air lines and travel agencies. It is located on the main floor of the Administration Building There is a nominal charge of $1 for domestic rail travel tickets. However, there are group plans and tours that are cheaper when arranged through the agency. The agencies’ hours are 9 5 daily and 9 11:30 on Saturday.

The University Bookstore maintains a package wrapping service. Any articles except clocks and radios bought at the bookstore will be packaged for mailing free of charge.

The tree in front of Woodworth’s Bookstore serves as an advertising bulletin board. The tree is one service which is open any time of the day and night, and is free.

these old Gothic walls. Students who scoffed at the idea that only honored personages could sit on the "C” bench in front of Cobb Hall en.tered the school. A tradition fell. Only those who are nostalgic for the past remember that at one time the bench was for seniors, campus beauties, etc.

Destroy Traditions

Thus the University developed a tradition of doing away with all the old traditions. The cry went up that Chicago was non traditional and non-traditionalism itself became the most honored and cherished of the University of Chicago traditions.

One of the most amazing things about the ivy covered walls within which the faculty strives to turn out thinking men and women, is the way that the memory of.the superstitions have remained even though the practices have long been forsaken.

One can still hear the warning that you should not step on the see page 11

new TEXT BOOKS used

Note Books Pencils Paper

Political Philosophy Psychology Religion

Reconditioned

Greeting Cards Infants’ Hear Women's Hear

Sandwiches Soft Drinks Hot Coffee

STUDENT SUPPLIES

GENERAL BOOKS

TYPEWRITERS

GIFTS and NOVELTIES

SNACK BAR

Fountain Pens Brief Cases Filing Equipment

Magazines Newspapers Subscriptions Art Prints

Rented

Repaired

Cosmetics

Social Stationery

Costume Jewelry

Cigarettes Tobacco Pipes

^Disc

1367 E. 57th ST.

20%0FF

on all

Christmas Cards until October 15th

Cameras

Accessories

Ventilated Sound-proof Listening Booths

PHOTOGRAPHIC SOPPLIES

PHONOGRAPH RECORDS

Fast and Export Developing Service

33-1 /3 and 15 Speeds long Play

I U of C BOOKSTORE I

I 5802 ELLIS AVENUE |

 

1

'1 September 24, 1954

THE CHICAGO MAROON

Page 11

Tradition (from page 10)

-old university seal in the Hutchinson Commons lobby; for if you do you will flunk all of your courses. If you watch closely, (hough, you will see students trodding upon the seal with the came nonchalance that they walk nto their favorite haunt.

Bridge Not Used

It has been said that the bridge over botany pond is the only place where a girl may be proposed to. In the tradition of nontraditionalism, this is the only place on campus that is never used for this purpose.

Female students at the University of Chicago are never, but never, referred to as co-eds. The origin of this unique institution is vague and obscured. They are supposed to be referred to as "university women.” However, although it is not sure whether or not this is a tradition, it too is overlooked.

Most of the male students find it more convenient to refer to girls in their own particular vernacular. This may result from their being taught that self expression is by far the best and most direct.

No “Frats**

Fraternity men resent their organizations being called "frats.” They never do, and constantly try to discourage others from doing so.

Nontraditionalism demands, however, that a few of the disrespectful, who first look behind them to see that a “frat man” is not in hearing distance, will refer to “the frats.”

Traditions Left

Those surviving traditions that

Botany Pond with two students who may or may not be proposing.

recall the “good old days” are sometimes confusing to the newcomer. Often the new student is startled by the Mitchell Tower (the tower over Hutchinson Commons) ringing at precisely 10:31 p.m. every night.

This originally was a "lights out” signal for athletes during the height of UC’s great sports era under Stagg. It now rings with the sole purpose of making good copy for an article such as this.

No One Dies For Zeta

Fraternities at UC are different, but not too different, according to George Stone, Interfraternity council president. Hazing died too long ago to rank as even a sad memory and nobody dies anymore for dear old Zeta chapter—no one even offers. “But,” Stone said, “we have a great deal of fraternity spirit; although, anybody who comes to UC expecting to find a fraternity where the chapter comes first and University responsibility second will be sadly disappointed.” Fraternity life on a campus inevitably reflects the institution, and at the University of Chicago that means 

a deep interest in academic as well as other activities.

UC chapters have, therefore, perennially Jed the nation with their academic averages without a conscious effort on their part.

But, as on most campuses, UC’s fraternities are the campus seat of traditionalism and the social outlook.

Fraternity members Stone said, are “more tradition oriented.” Nowhere on campus are memories of Botany Pond battles more fervently nursed, fondly recalled, or more enjoyably relived.

Fraternity social functions, with some exceptions, are mostly parties, smokers, and such like; they are also active in community work projects.

Stereotypes Twisted

UC does, of course, have the traditional fraternity stereotypes, the “rah! rah!” (or “rippety-tear,” but that’s a different story) fraternity, the athletic fraternity, et al. At UC, however, even the stereotypes have a twist: the fraternity with the highest percentage of varsity athletes holds the campus scholarship trophy.

UC chapters, according to Stone, tend to rebel at campus intellectualism. The “intellectualism” they ridicule, however, is not that of intelligence and a serious interest in study. They tend to oppose, rather, the almost undefinable type of “intellectualism” prevalent at UC during the last decade.

If proponents of this latter type of “intellectualism” can be regarded as having an abhorrence at even a mention of the word “football” it is interesting to note that it was on the lawn fraternity houses that there appeared last fall displays endorsing the rumored return of football to campus.

Fraternity social activities are usually frequent, well-planned, and successful — certainly more so than those offered in university housing.

Costs the Same

Some say that fraternity housing and membership saves money; others say it doesn’t. In any event, a spendthrift is a spendthrift no matter where he lives. Initiation see page 18

Women's Clubs Sponsor

Social Welfare Activities

Women’s clubs of the University of Chicago have been active in presenting a varied program for their members and the University community since the first club was formed sixty years ago. At present there are four women’s clubs on campus: Sigma, Delta Sigma, Quadranglers, and Mortarboard.

The program of the women is closely correlated with welfare activities. Some of the organizations which are aided by the clubs are the Red Cross,

Christmas Settlement Party, a part of fraternity and women’s club welfare work.

’s clubs is not only social, but

the World University Service, Billings Hospital, Volunteer Service, Care, and the University's settlement house.

^5^ ^^/eto^f ^z.

Lowest priced in its field!

This beoutiful new Styleline De Luxe 2 Door Sedon lists for less than any comparable model in its field. (Continuation of standard equip* went and trim illustrated is dependent on availability of material. White sidewall fires ot antra east when available.!

AU these Big-Car Extras with the Lowest-Priced Line in its Field I

extra wide choice of Styling end Colors

EXTRA BEAUTY AND QUALITY of Body by Fisher

EXTRA SMOOTH , ^ORMANCE of Centerpi ower

EXTRA STRENGTH AND COMFORT of Fisher Unisteel Construction

EXTRA RIDING COMFORT of Improved Knee-Action

EXTRA SMOOTHNESS

EXTRA STOPPING POWER of Jumbo-Drum Brakes

EXTRA STEERING EASE EXTRA PRESTIGE

of Center-Point Steering of America’s Most Popular Cor

of POWERJ/%^:

Automatic Transmission

A complete power team with extra-powerful Valve-in Head engine, and Automatic Choke. Optional on De Luxe models at extra cost.

MORE PEOPLE BUY

CHEVROLETS THAN ANY OTHER CAR!

CHEVROLET

^ 7^? ^i^ /^te &ztf

PRICED SO LOW!

Fete Orphans

At Christmas, the clubs join with the fraternities to give parties for orphans and underprivileged children. The latest project of the women's club is reading to blind students on campus. Besides these welfare activities, some clubs maintain scholarship funds.

Highlighting the women's clubs social activities are two formal dances, Preferential Dinner and Interclub Ball. The former is held at the end of fall rushing, the latter in January. Besides the two formal dances, there are individual club parties and coffee hours with the fraternities throughout the year.

The Interclub Council, composed of the presidents and two representatives from each of the women’s clubs, serves as the organizing and governing body of the women's clubs of the University of Chicago, collectively.

To Rush

Interclub Tea, which is open to all women students sixteen years or older will be held Wednesday afternoon, October 13, in the Ida Noyes library. According to Ruth Kopel, Interclub Council president, the tea serves as introduction of the women of the University to the club system and preparation for the rushing period which begins at 6 p.m., Sunday, October 17. During the two-week rushing period, each club will have two evening parties and one afternoon party, which are open to all eligible women. The rushing period will be climaxed by Preferential Dinner and Dance, Saturday night, October 30.

Camera Bugs Add Equipment

With featured speakers at most meetings, numerous 'field - trips, and a yearly salon the University of Chicago Camera Club rales as an active student organization.

Al present they have one “wellequipped” darkroom in Reynolds club basement and a studio in the west stands of Stagg field. They constantly add to their store of

SEE YOUR CHEVROLET DEALER FOR ALL YOUR AUTOMOTIVE NEEDS!

Conveniently listed under "Automobiles” in your local classified telephone directory

equipment.

Student dues are $2.00 per quarter or $5.00 for three quarters. Dues include use of all darkroom and studio equipment owned by the Club; chemicals are supplied. Attendance at Club meetings is required under most circumstances. September 24, 1954

Page 12

THE CHICAGO MAROON

Varied Theatrical, Musical, Other Artistic Fare Offered .UC Students by Metropoliton Chicago

At this time of year, Chicago’s cultural minded turn their attention from summer theaters, outdoor concerts, and sidewalk art exhibits to more conventional, and certainly more comfortable showcases of theatrical, musical, and other artistic fare. In addition to campus presentations, the university’s position in Chicago makes other cultural opportunities easily accessible.

The 64th season of the Chicago Symphony Orchestra opens in mid-October, the series of

28 Thursday evening and 28 Friday afternoon concerts beginning in the week of Oct. 14 and the series of 12 Tuesday afternoon concerts beginning Oct. 26. Particularly good for students are the Friday afternoon concerts at which 65 cents will buy a seat in the gallery, from which the music can best be heard.

Under Fritz Reiner, a relative newcomer to the Chicago scene, the orchestra’s reputation, which has tottered frequently during the last generation, has been considerbly strengthened. Critics have been particularly enthusiastic over the orchestra’s performance of works by Richard Strauss (Reiner’s pet composer), Moussorgsky’s “Pictures at an Exhibition,” and Beethoven’s even-numbered symphonies. Compositions of special interest which the orchestra will perform during the coming season are some of the little-known later works of Richar 1 Straus and a concerto grosso with a new twist. Rolf Liebermann’s “Concerto for Jazz Band and Orchestra.”

Give Soloists

In addition to Reiner, the orchestra will have as guest conductors Joseph Krips and Bruno Walter. A few of the soloists scheduled are Robert Casadesus (pianist), Zino Francescatti (violinist). Walter Gieseking (pianist). Andres Segovia (guitarist), and Elisabeth Schwarzkopf (soprano >.

On Sunday afternoons the Allied Arts series of twelve concerts will feature, among others, Marion Anderson, Zino Francescatti. Elisabeth Schwarzkopf, the Vienna Boys’ Choir, and Jascha Heifitz. A savings of 50 per cent may be had with the purchase of a subscription to all twelve concerts.

The Berlin Philharmonic, the Amsterdam Concertgebouw, the New' York Philharmonic, and the Detroit Symphony Orchestra will perform in another Allied Arts series.

Book Ballet

Both the Chicago Symphony and Allied Arts concerts are held at Orchestra Hall. 216 South Michigan. Allied Arts will also book a dance series into the Chicago Civic Opera House. Wacker drive at Madison street.

This series, for ^hich a season ticket may be purchased, will include performances by the London Festival Ballet. Oct. 31; Ballet Rus' de Monte Carlo, Dec. 26; Balint Theater, March 3; Jose Limon and company, March 20; and Jose Greco, May 8. Chicago may also expect a visit from the New York City Ballet; Sadler’s Wells may only be hoped for.

Also expected at the Opera House are Moira Shearer and Robert Helppman in A Midsummer’s Night Dream scheduled for late November, and the Lyric Theater. Chicago's recently formed and dowager-endowed resident opera company which will open a three-week season Nov. I with Bellini’s Norma.

Lists Posted

Announcements of other concerts at several other auditoriums are posted in the Reynold’s club for what seems to be about 15 of 16 years in advance. Tickets for Chicagoland musical and theatrical events can be purchased conveniently at the Student Service Center, Reynold's club basement.

Opening the 1954-55 theater season in Chicago is William Inge’s prize-winning Picnic, now playing at the Erlanger Theater; Wonderful Town with music by Leonard Bernstein opened in Chicago last spring and is now wintering at the Schubert. In sight are Mrs. Patterson with Eartha Kitt, Oct. 12; The Remarkable Mr. Pennypacker, Oct. 25; Saint Joan with Jean Arthur. Nov. 8; Tea and Sympathy with Deborah Kerr. March 7; and The King and I with Yul Brynner and Patricia Morrison, date not set.

Under new tax legislation prices at many theaters have been reduced considerably. Those for Picnic start at $1.10, only 25 cents more than many double feature movies. Few plays give Sunday night performances, and prices for some plays skyrocket on Saturday nights.

Produce Drama

Goodman Memorial Theatre, at the foot of East Adams street on Columbus drive, presents plays produced by th^rd, fourth and fifth year students in the Art Institute School of Drama for the public and members of the Art Institute. This season marks the 2-1 th year of membership plays.

The season of eight plays runs from October through May. The opening play will be a good commercial bit, Yes, My Darling Daughter, followed by Thunder Rock; in the planning stage are The Cocktail Party and Victoria Regina. The theater always presents one Shakespearean work during the year. Prices are $1.10 for regular admission, 75 cents for members of the Art Institute, and 50 cents for students.

Playwright’s Theater Ciub, 1205 North Dearborn, provides an excellent proving ground for ambitious young Chicagoans interested in getting practical experience in theater work. Called “club” for reasons of zoning and taxation, this group experimented during the summer with a Shakespearean festival, some plays of which were highly acclaimed by Chicago critics, who rarely acclaim anything.

Air New York

The group is particularly interested in airing significant new plays and translations of outstanding European works. Prices for performances are $3, $2. and $1.50. Following their current production of Ibsen’s Peer Gynt on

the theater’s newly remodeled stage will be Chekov’s The Sea Gull, Oct. 12-31; Oscar Wilde’s Salome, Nov. 2-14; Theodore Horrman’s Rich But Happy, Nov. 16Dec. 5; and A Time for Laughter, based on three pieces of Jewish literature, starting on Dec 7.

The following Chicagoland theaters show films which are nebulously dubbed “prestige" films: Hyde Park, Harper, Surf (particularly good for English films), Carnegia (ditto), Cinema Annex, attractive to those who like films dealing with good music. Russian films, and controversial films). Loop, Ziegfield. and World Playhouse (showing the worst and best of foreign films t. The Harper and Hyde Park are near campus, offer double features, and give discounts to students.

The best way to keep posted on art and museum exhibits is through the daily newspaper or through announcements in the Chicago Exhibitions Calendar. Particularly good are the lecture and art exhibit announcements and reviews buried among the women’s pages of the Chicago Tribune.

Tell Dates

The Chicago Exhibition Calendar. a quarterly publication listing all exhibits of art and science, can be purchased for 15 cents each at the Art Institute. Individual subscriptions are $1 for eight issues covering a two-year period, and may be obtained by writing to the Chicago Exhibitions committee, the Art Institute of Chicago. Adams street and Michigan avenue.

The Art Institute of Chicago, widely denounced as the museum with the dirtiest exterior in the country, houses the finest art collection in the Midwest.

Among its collections are 50,000 original prints and drawings, paintings and watercolors, ranging from the earliest religious subjects in 13th century Europe to Picasso, Klee, and Leger, the greatest collection of 19th and 20th century French paintings, sculpture, bronzes, and fabrics from China, Persia, Egypt, and India; period rooms of Elizabethan England and Puritan America; and Graeco-Roman, Medieval, Renaissance, Baroque, and Modern sculpture.

In the Art Institute libraries are 52,000 volumes on art and 9,200 volumes dealing with the history of architecture.

Change Exhibits

Other far smaller galleries at

which exhibits are frequently changed are Marshall Field and Co.; the Cinema Theatre. Chicago avenue and Michigan boulevard: the Chicago Society of Arttists, 613 North State; La Foutique Fantasque, 103 East Oak; and the Allan Frumkin Gallery, 152 East Superior street.

Excellent art exhibits may also be seen in Goodspeed hall on the UC campus, where the Renaissance Society displays many large touring exhibits of paintings, sculptures, mobiles, and framing techniques.

For those without the price of a theater or concert ticket, any of Chicago’s museums can provide a diverting and inexpensive afternoon (although for some one must go on the right afternoons). The Adler Planetarium. Rosevelt road and Lake Michigan, displays antique and modern astronomical instruments and photographs of the heavens. Lectures and demonstrations under a man-made “sky” are given twice daily.

Show Science

Clustered near the planetarium is the Shedd Aquarium which contains 10,000 live fish and other aquatic specimens, and The Chicago Natural History Museum, which is devoted to anthropology, botany, geology, and zoology. Of special interest in the Natural History Museum are the “Races of Mankind” series of life-size bronzes by Malvina Hoffman; the Hall of the Stone Age with dioramas of prehistoric man; and the series of mammals and birds in reproductions of their natural habitats.

Pretty faces from all over the world appear on the Chicago cultural scene during the year. Uday Shankar and his Indian ballet usually put in an Opera House appearance annually, as well as Anna Maria and her Spanish ballet. Native music from the Orient and Occident can be heard in many of Chicago's night clubs and large and small concert halls.

campus, contains operating exhibits of physics, chemistry, fuels and metals, power, transportation, medical sciences, engineering construction, and graphic arts.

Other spots of interest are the Chicago Historical Society, Clark street and North avenue, noted for its Lincolnia exhibits, and the Oriental Institute. 58th and University, which contains archeological exhibits from Egypt. Syria, Palestine, Iraq. Turkey, and Iran.

Library Free

• Also free are the facilities of the Chicago Public Library, Michigan avenue at Randolph street, which include not only two million books, but newspaper microfilms, records and slides for outside use, lectures, concerts, and music listening rooms.

Most convenient of all. of course, are the activities conducted right on campus.

List Series

Featurerl on the University Concert autumn series will be: Appleton and Field, duo-pianists, playing, among other selections, Stravinsky's “Concerto per due Pianoforti Soli”; Her vert Fromm, Wever, and Schubert, played by Alexander Schneider, violinist, and Arthur Balsam, pianist; and Grace Creswell, contralto, singing ballads, songs and “white spirituals.” In the winter quarter four chamber music concerts will be presented; performing will be the New Music Quartet; the Budapest Quartet; the University Chamber Music Players, a group of Chicago musicians which is particularly interested in exploring repertories which are rarely heard, and which will present music for strings and oboe; and the Vegh String Quartet, which performed more-than successfi i’y on campus last year.

Among the spring quarter performances are the New York Quartet, a UC favorite; Phyllis Curtin, soprano; and the Shuman Brass Choir.

Single tickets for the Friday evening concerts cost $1.50; subscriptions at $11 for the entire season and $4.40 for each quarsee page 13

The Museum of Science and Industry, only a short walk froth

Phone: NO 7-9071

Student Rate 50c

hyde park theatre

on lake park at 53rd

UNIVERSITY

BARBER SHOP

1453 E. 57th

Fine haircutting Two barbers working

Floyd C. Arnold Proprietor

Playwrights Theatre Club 1205 N. Dearborn

announces its fall season IBSEN'S great epic PEER GYNT

opening Friday, Sept. 24 to be followed by THE SEA GULL

Chekov's pastoral tragicomedy

THE CONFIDENTIAL CLERK

T. S.- Elliot's new comedy

RICH BUT HAPPY

Theodore Hoffman—a new satire

TIME FOR LAUGHTER two plays by Sholom Aleichem and Wolf Mankowitz

SPECIAL STUDENT RATES NIGHTLY: Tues, thru Sat. (8:30) SUNDAYS- (7:30) $1.50 - $1.00 Season Membership and

Reservations Available At '

Student Government

Ticket Agency Or Call WHitehall 3-2272

Starting Friday, Sept. 24 — for one week only — Shakespeare & Shaw — — Series No. 1 —

JULIUS CAESAR

STARRING

MARLON BRANDO

as Mark Antony

JAMES MASON

os Brutus

JOHN GIELGUD

as Cassius

LOUIS CALHERN as Julius Caesar EDMOND O’BRIEN as Casca

GREER GARSON as Catpurnia

DEBORAH KERR a*

Portia

PYGMALION

ROBERT NEWTON os Alfred Doolittle Dustman

LESLIE HOWARD as Professor Higgins

WENDY HILLER as Eliza Doolittle

the

We wish to extend welcome greetings to old and new students. As always we shall program with your tutored tastes and high level of appreciation in mind.

FOR THIS VERY SPECIAL PROGRAM — AS FOR ALL PERFORMANCES — we extend the privilege of our very low student rate of 50c. Please show your I.D. card at the box office when asking

S for student tickets September 24, 1954

THE CHICAGO MAROON

Page 13

Theatrical and Music Societies

Come Into Full-Blossom at UC

The principle that a single det or does not make a production nor a solo voice an oratorio has led to the blossoming of numerous student organizations devoted to theatrical and musical self-expression.

The reward members of such organizations obtain is found

not so much in the hectic pace actual concerts and performances as in the experience and work-discipline of pre-performance preparation.

The Bach Singers, an admittedly high-brow organization devoted to the systematic cultivation of the Bach choralbueh and other genres of choral music, train members to improve sight-reading, carry a voice part, read medieval Gregorian - German notation, and polish their German pronunciation.

Humanities students will find this work particularly valuable insofar as the selections are not simply sung, but that their linguistic, theological, and cultural content is also treated.

State Requirements

The Bach singers welcome any student or non-student who possesses a fair singing voice, some familiarity with note-reading and a love of work. To insure continuity of the group's development, College students are particularly encouraged to join.

Rehearsals are held each Saturday from 1:30 to 4:30 with a recess of 20 minutes for coffee; a minimum of individual work at home is also required.

“Singing for the enjoyment of it” is the refreshingly unpretentious goal of the University Glee club, according to Peter Gram Swing, the group’s conductor. This confraternity of singers gives students an opportunity to perform choral works of high musical value.

The aim of the group is a high degree of technical proficiency in performance, without requiring members to possess the qualifications of professional choristers. The group also has an active social life, holding suppers, spontaneous get-togethers, and afterconcert parties. The club puts on several concerts a year, both on and off campus.

There arc no initial auditions in the Glee Club, and members may be expected to put in about three hours a week in preparation for concerts.

Play Chamber Music

The Collegiate Sinfonietta gives occasional concerts with the Glee Club, which practices the Sinfonietta and performs chamber music, also gives concerts with soloists during the year. The size of the Sinfonietta ranges from 12

SCHNEEMANN’S RED DOOR BOOK SHOP 1328 EAST 57TH ST.

Book-Cellar to the University of Chicago Community

New & Used Books:

Ordinary and Extraordinary Foreign and Domestic Vintage and Anchor

Open 9:30 A.M. to 11 P.M.

Sundays 2 P.M. to 11 P.M. Closed Wednesday Afternoons

NOrmal 7-6111

 

and professional excitement of

to 22 members according to the number of instrumentalists .required for specific works. Admission to the Sinfonietta is by audition with the conductor, Dieter Kober.

Another opportunity for students to play good music with a select group of fellow instrumentalists or soloists is provided by the Collegium Musicum. This is a chamber orchestra of between twenty-five to thirty players. Rehearsals are held in Mandel Hall from 7:30 to 10 every Monday evening. The Collegium will loan instruments to members who do not have theirs on campus.

Champion Folk Songs

The cause of the folk-song, "the permissable form of lunacy for the intellectual fringe,” is championed by the UC Folklore Society. The Society gives members a chance to learn folk-songs and to meet others interested in folkmusic and folk-dancing.

The informal “Wing Dings” are held where members sing folksongs and lead group singing, square and folk-dances. The bulk of the society’s 110 members come from the College with ages ranging from 14 upward.

Of a somewhat similar flavor are the Country Dancers, a group which experiments with the English folk-dance.

Acrotheatre is a dancing and acrobatic group which gives three full length shows annually and several shorter-length shows for the alumni, the lab school and other organizations. Although many of Acrotheatre’s people have had dancing and gymnastic experience, no special skills are necessary for a student to join the group. Skills are developed in weekly practice sessions and lessons, this training program consisting mostly of mass instruction by professional instructors.

Acrotheatre gives each student instruction in tumbling, modern dance, adagio dancing, acrobatics, and other related skills. Skills in theater arts, such as make-up, set design, staging, lighting, and acting may also be acquired. Most members are expected to put in four hours a week unless they have other duties to perform.

Other dance groups on campus are the Modern Dance Club and the Knights of the Ballet, a group

A dramatic profile from a production presented lost year by University Theatre. University Theofre this year plans to produce three major works and several play readings.

which writes, produces, and performs their own ballets.

Offer Theater Training

Providing a varied program of drama training and experience is University Theatre. The theater company produces three major productions and several drama readings throughout the year.

UT offers experience to anyone interested in acting, directing, designing, writing, translating, painting, lighting, make-up, photography, or any phase of theater. Membership in the company is open to any student on a try-out basis.

A number of executive positions are open with WUCB, the capus radio station. No experience is necessary or expected of prospective WUCB members, and training is offered informally in the fields of announcing and engineering, and more formally in producing, publicity, business, and many other related fields. The amount of time required of a member of ay experience is fairly flexible, although two hours a week is considered a mininjum.

Cultural Activities Outlined

(from page 12)

ter may also be obtained. Tickets and information for these and other concerts may be found at the music office, 5802 Woodlawn.

Musicuni to Play

Other Mandel hall concerts are given by the Collegium Musicum, a chamber orchestra of between 25 and 30 players which during the past year performed works of Bach, Haydn, Mozart, Rameau, and Bartok.

The Collegiate Sinfonietta is a group of from twelve to 22 instrumentalists which performs music for chamber orchestra. The Sinfonietta gives occasional concerts with soloists and concerts in connection with the UC Glee Club.

Already in rehearsal is the October 29 concert of the Bach Singers, an independent choral group which cultivates Bach Choralbueh

^fte jd/^um

PHOTOGRAPHERS

MIDWAY 3-4433

1171 EAST 55th STREET

OUR SPECIAL CHECKING ACCOUNT REQUIRES NO MINIMUM BALANCE

No No No

monthly service charge,

charge for deposits

charge for printing your name on every check

lsm Iffll.il IM

“A Strong Bank” 1354 East 55th Street Member Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation

WUCB Plans Given

New high-power transmitters for International House, larger studio facilities, and a heavier program schedule are included among the fall expansion plans of WUCB, the campus radio station.

WUCB will be braodcasting to International House by the first week of classes in the autumn quarter, providing coverage there for the first time in several years. The transmitter is expected to deliver a strong, high-quality signal to all parts of the large building.

lies Rare Hi-Fi

According to John Lyon, station manager, WUCB’s present transmitters in Burton-Judson and the C-Group are two of the few high-fidelity AM transmitters in the world. The present facilities include transmitters in various locations; studios; and various studio equipment such as microphones, turntables, and tape recorders. WUCB’s broadcasting frequency is 640 on the AM dial.

The station also has tentative plans for construction of new studios in BJ early in the autumn quarter; according to plans the new studios will be far superior accoustically to WUCB’s present studios and in a more convenient location.

Re-Broadcasts

WUCB’s 14 Ms hours of programming daily, including WEFM rebroadcasting, bring classical and semi-classical music to campus listeners during most of the day and late evening; the only daily campus news; the only extensive Chicago AM program of poetry, drama, and readings; and many special features such as on the spot campus election coverage, musical scores of Broadway shows, popular music and jazz.

Among the new programs

from cover to cover, as well as canons, selected Gregorian themes, German folksongs of the 16th century, sacred folksongs, motets, and madrigals. The October 29 concert will include sacred and secular music of Bach and some of his contemporaries. An elaborate Christmas program to be sung in French is also being readied.

Tell Attractions

Other Mandel attractions include lecture series, one-night stand ballet troupes, non-series concerts, jazz concerts, performances by the UC Glee club, and speakers and soloists sponsored by various campus organizations.

Countless series and non-series public lectures are held during the year. Best known series are the Vaughn Moody lectures, which last year presented, among others, Joyce Carey, Katherine

scheduled for an autumn premier is The Wax Museum, broadcasting old records, many of them collectors’ items, from the private collection of WUCB staffer Bill Dunning, who produces the produces the program. Among the records which listeners will hear on The Wax Museum, some of which are almost 30 years old. are tunes by such musicians as Glenn Miller, Artie Shaw, Tommy Dorsey, Jelly Roll Morton, Duke Ellington, and many others, all wellknown jazz artists.

Series Returns

Returning to the air Sept. 27 is Vox Parnasse, a program of aural literature, heard each Monday evening at 9 p.m. This quarter’s first program will inaugurate a four-week series of readings from the works of English poet-philosopher John Donne, read by professor Austin Warren of the English department of the University of Michigan.

Future Vox broadcasts will include Ronald Coleman reading the Bible and other poets reading their own works. Recordings used on Vox Parnasse are borrowed through special arrangement from the Harriet Monroe Modern Poetry Collection in Harper Library, where they may be heard on playback equipment installed in the library.

Ann Porter, and Marianne Moore; and the Charles A. Walgreen lectures, which last year sponsored Leo Strauss’ three-lecture discussion of Machaivelli and Gordon Clapps’ discussion of the TVA.

In the Reynold’s Club Theater, University Theater, now in its seventh year as a campus organization, offers a program of play production and study to members of the University community. Productions are presented both in the round and in the conventional theater arrangement.

UT Premieres

In its seven-year history, UT has world premiered nearly ten new plays. One full-scale production may be expected each quarter in addition to frequent barestage play readings. Prices for performances loiter in the vicinity of a dollar.

In addition, the campus offers a movie series not available in the commercial theaters. International House presents older American and foreign films weekly, and Burton Judson’s Friday and Sunday night programs include more recent Hollywood productions and archaic adventure serials.

Of high technical interest is the documentary film series, which last year presented, among other features, a comedy film survey, the early film, “A Trip to the Moon,” and Erich von Stroheim’s “Extase.” Tickets to Doc films are sold by subscription.

Eye Examinations Visual Training

Dr. Kurt Rosenbaum

optometrist

1132 E. 55th Street HYde Park 3-8372 ^,14 THE CHICAGO MAROON September 24, 1454

UC Acts As Religious Center

Carillon Recital, Dinner, Open House, Open Year

Predicated on the values reflected by John D. Rockefeller’s dedicatory precept to the Chapel, that “the spirit of religion

the University” and “that the

sentatives of the Protestant, Catholic, and Jewish faiths. The topic of this discussion will be "The role of religion in higher education.”

Following the dinner, open house is being held in the three houses on the Quadrangles designed to serve the religious needs of all faiths at the University. Beginning at 8:30 and continuing until 10, new students will have the opportunity to meet their respective religious leaders on campus and join in fellowship with fellow students of their faith.

The open houses are to be held at Chapel House, which is sponsored by the University and cooperating Protestant groups and is located at 5810 Woodlawn Avenue; Hillel Foundation, which serves Jewish students, at 5715 Woodlawn, and De Sales House, which serves Roman Catholic students, at 5735 University Avenue.

should penetrate and control University in its ideal is dominated by the spirit of religion, all its departments are inspired by religious feeling and all its work is directed to highest ends,” is the tradition which sets aside the first Sabbath of a new school year as a special day of introduction to the religious leaders and organizations found on campus.

Festivities this Sunday evening will be initiated with a carillon recital given by James R. Lawson. Rockefeller Chapel carillonneur at 4:30. Following this, there will be an organ recital played in the chapel by Heinrich Fleischer.

The main event of the evening takes place at 6 p.m. at Hutchinson Commons. The traditional interfaiths dinner, given free for all incoming students and followed by a panel discussion, will take place at this time. John B. Thompson. dean of the chapel, will chair a faculty panel made up of repre Religious Clubs Serve Campus

Supporting the many churches and synagogues of the University community in their role as established institutions for the spiritual growth of their student members are the many religious clubs and organizations found on the campus.

These student religious organizations extend over a wide range of faiths and denominations. Their general purpose seems universally devoted to promoting an atmosphere of religious fellowship and spiritual guidance to be integrated with the student’s intellectual and

social endeavors.

The Porter Foundation is a campus religious organization which came into existence two years ago upon the merger of Presbyterian. Congregational, Evangelical and Reform groups on campus.

Several fellowships are sponsored to meet the needs of a diverse student body. These are: the College Fellowship, the Graduate Fellowship, and the Couples’ Club.

President Jerry Hogan of the College Fellowship has announced that the first meeting of this organization will be a supper meeting to be held in Swift Hall Commons at 6 p.m. to October 3.

The first meeting of the Graduate Fellowship will be held October 6 at 7 p.m. at Chapel House. The Reverend William N. Lovell is the spiritual advisor for the fellowship groups.

List Activities

Hillel Foundation sponsors Jewish religious services every

Friday evening at 7:45 at Raymond Karasik House, 5715 Woodlawn. Following services is an informal social gathering at the house called Fireside, which many times sponsors a featured speaker. Besides religious service, Hillel’s activities include lessons and discussions on Jewish language, history and folk dancing.

Gunther Heilbrunn, president of the Hillel Student Council has announced this quarter's first Friday night lecture and discussion will deal with the subject of “Symbolic Religion.”

Tell Aims

Calvert Club, the Roman Catholic student club, meets at De Sales House, 5735 University, and seeks to “deepen the spiritual and enrich the temporal lives of the group through a program of religious, intellectual and social activities.” Besides the availability of the chapel, library and recreation rooms of De Sales House, plans have been made for a full program of lectures, parties, retreats and discussions to enrich the campus life of Roman Catholic students. .

Channing Club is the student organization for those students of . a Universalist persuasion. Meetings are held on Sunday evenings from 6 to 10 p.m. at the William W. Fenn House, 5633 Woodlawn, and include a dinner followed by discussions and recreation.

Plans for a weekend retreat at Druce Lake Camp in northern Illinois have been set for October 22 to 24. Unitarian services are held at the First Unitarian Church, 57th and Woodlawn.

Give Purposes

The Inter-Varsity Christian Feilowship, in the words of last year’s president, Nancy Turner, “seeks to encourage the student to have a very real and meaningful relationship to Christ.” This organization began at Cambridge and Oxford in the latter part of the 19th century and since then see page 15

Entering tmd Farmer Students Houses of Worship Welcome Vou

BUDDHIST

CHICAGO BUDDHIST CHURCH 5487 S. Dorchester

Service Hour 1 1 a m. Sunday

Private instruction or meeting by appointment

ROMAN CATHOLIC

ST THOMAS THE APOSTLE CHURCH (Catholic)

55th & Kimbark

Rev. Edmund P. Godfrey, pastor Sunday Masses 4-6 p.m. & 7:30-9 p.m.

Bowling League / Father Robert Tyrrell

Basketball League ) FA 4-2626

JEWISH

CONGREGATION RODFEI ZEDEK (Jewish Conservative)

5200 Hyde Park Blvd.

Rabbi Ralph Simon, preaching Cantor Maurice Goldberg, officiating Friday evening services 8:30 p.m. Sabbath morning services 9 a m.

For information regarding cultural & social activities for college age students call PL 2-2244. Seats are available at the 54th PI. and Greenwood synagogue for High Holy Day services in the conservative manner. Rabbi Benjamin Daskal will preach, and Cantor Melvin C. Zuckerman will officiate. The seating committee will be on the premises from 10 a.m. till noon, Sunday morning, Sept. 26.

TEMPLE ISAIAH ISRAEL

1100 Hyde Park Blvd.

Rabbi Dr. Morton M. Berman

Assistant Rabbi Victor H. Weissberg Friday evening 8:15 p.m. (Starting Oct. 22)

Saturday Morning 10.45 a m.

Choral Society — WA 4-1234

PROTESTANT

FIRST BAPTIST CHURCH OF CHICAGO

935 E. 50th St.

Dr. Jitsuo Morikawa, Pastor

Morning breakfast, college age 9:00 a m. Services: Sunday, Church School 9:45 a.m., and Morning Worship 1 1 :00 a.m.

Coffee Hour 6:00 p.m., Chapel Service, 7:00 p.m., Wednesday Pot-Luck Supper 6:30 p.m., Devotional 7:30 p m.

JACKSON PARK BAPTIST CHURCH 6200 Kenwood

Rev. James Kurtz, pastor Sunday Worship Services 1 1 a m. & 7 p.m. Young Peoples group 5:30 Sunday evening ^ coffee and discussion.

WOODLAWN BAPTIST CHURCH 6207 University

Dr. A. J. Harms, minister Worship Service 1 1 a m. Sunday Sunset Hour Service 7 p.m. Sunday Prayer Service 7:30 p.m. Wednesday Sunday School 9:45 a.m. Sunday

FIRST PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH Kimbark Ave. at 64th St.

Harold Leonard Bowman, D.D. Minister Edward U. Warner, Minister

Sunday Service 1 1 a.m.

For information on young adult call DO 3-0505 Choir Thursday 7:30 p.m.

SIXTH UNITED PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH

Woodlawn and 62nd St.

Rev. Charles R. Graham, minister Worship Service 1 1 a m. Sunday Mid-week Service 8 p.m. Wednesday Chancel Choir rehearsals 7:45 p m. Thursday

AUGUSTANA LUTHERAN CHURCH 5400 Kimbark

Rev. Rudolph W. Jonson, pastor Worship service 10:45 a.m. Sunday Students welcome to sing in choir; rehearsal 8 p.m. Friday.

UNITED CHURCH OF HYDE PARK 

53rd and Blackstone

Dr. Mitchell T. Ancker, minister James W. Schaefer, minister Sunday Worship 1 1 a m.

Young Adult Group (married or unmarried) 9:30 a.m. Sunday for breakfast and discussion. Open House 8 p.m. to 1 a m. Friday evenings Coffee Hour after church

Adult Choir rehearsal 7:30 pm. Wednesday

FRIENDS RELIGIOUS SOCIETY OF 57th ST. MEETING

5615 Woodlawn

Secretary Mary Cadbury BU 8-3066 Worship 1 1 a m. Sunday Worship 7:45 p.m. Thursday

Young People's group every other Sunday evening starting October 3rd; supper at 6 p.m. and meeting after supper.

FIRST UNITARIAN CHURCH

1174 E. 57th St.

Dr. Leslie T. Pennington, minister Dr. Von Ogden Vogt, minister emeritus Worship service 1 1 a.m. Sunday Channing Club meets at 7 p.m. starting Sunday, October 3rd, in Fenn House (address same as above).

Couples Club meets semi-monthly; for more information call church office.

ROCKEFELLER MEMORIAL CHAPEL (Non denominational)

59th at Woodlawn

John B. Thompson, dean of the Chapel Worship Service 1 1 a.m. Sunday There are three houses on the quadrangles designed to meet the religious needs of all faiths:

Chapel House, 5810 Woodlawn, sponsored by the University and co-operating Protestant groups.

Hillel Foundation, 5715 Woodlawn, serving Jewish students.

Calvert Club, 5735 University, an organization of Roman Catholic students. ><W**'

^:<^^^#^O:

’ - # •• . x***, ^ <V .^

* ^e

Rockefeller Memorial Chapel nt 59th and Woodlawn is the center of religious activity on the campus, serving the religious needs of ail faiths.

Religion Well-served By Groups,

Campus Gives Active Support

(from page ID has spread to universities in other parts of the world.

Fellowship in Christian Living Is promoted by the Inter Varsity Christian Fellowship through prayer, Bible study and social activities such as the weekly luncheon speaker meetings held every Monday afternoon in Ida Noyes Hall at 12:30.

provides Ideas

Alfred Illingworth, president of the New’ Testament Club, states that this organization seeks to “contribute to the total life of the university by providing ideas and fellowship for those in the university community who are interested in Biblical studies and their relation to life.” The New Testament Club meets each second Monday at 8 p.m. at Swift Hall Commons.

One of the main activities of the Methodist Student Union is the sponsorship of the annual Aldergate Festival service in Rockefeller Chapel in commemoration of the inception of the Methodist Church by John Wesley. During the school year discussions, social life, suppers, worship and religious study take up the group

efforts of the members of organization.

Services Given

The Lutheran Church of

this

the

University of'Chicago holds Sun day worship services on Sunday at 10 o’clock in Hilton Chapel,

international House Movie Program

Assembly Hall, Monday and Thursday Evenings at 8 p.m.

Monday, Sept. 27 MA POMME I French > with Maurice Chevalier

Thursday, Sept. 30 THE MALE ANIMAL (American) with Henry Fonda and Olivia de Havilland

a new exhibition of paintings at

(oftkrs fl Oli Sfe F

ACASA Book Store

Scholarly used books Typewriters bought, sold and repaired

1117 E. 55th St. Hl 3-9651

by Gerri Mc Cullough

58th and University Avenue. Two student organizations are available for Lutheran students. These are Alpha Iota Chapter of Gamma Delta, sponsored by the Missouri Synod and the Lutheran Student Association, which are .sponsored by the National Lutheran Council.

Hold Lectures

Special plans for a series of discussions on “The Changing Morality of America” is planned for this fall by the Lutheran Church.

Quakers on campus will find the Young Friends Fellowship an organization devoted to student fellowship on the principles and practices of the Society of Friends. The Young Friends meet every Sunday evening at Quaker House, 5615 Woodlawn. Activities usually include discussions, retreats, work projects and outings.

The University of Chicago Ethics Association was established in January, 1953, by a group of students interested primarily in discussion of ethical and religious beliefs. The president of this association is Chester Gleit, and their meetings are usually held in Judson Lounge.

Reception Planned

Episcopalians on campus will find fellowship in the Episcopal Church Council and the Canterbury Club. The council is an organization designed for faculty, and Canterbury Chib is the national organization for Episcopal college students.

Anderson, University Marshal, Directs Convocation Activities

Convocation time is still a long way off for most new entrants, but Harold A. Anderson, University marshal, already knows what the ceremony will be like. Anderson serves as the Chancellor’s aide, making the arrangements for all official University functions, such as the Chancellor’s Reception, and the four convocations at which degrees are conferred each year.

In addition, he manages the receiving line at such functions as the trustees’ dinner for the faculty, and performs such special duties as arranging and administrating the procession of

282 dignitaries for the recent Bar Center dedication.

Tells Alm

“The convocation should be dignified and yet simple. Everything should proceed with precision without ostentatiousness. There should be a pause after the reading of each candidate’s name W’hile he stands facing the audience to receive his degree,” Anderson believes.

Fur this reason he inaugurated the present convocation scheme after his appointment by the Chancellor ten years ago. “We are one of the few Universities that make an attempt to call the names of the graduates and have them appear to receive actual diplomas." he explains. “Sometimes I don’t know whether it is worth the effort, but 1 think the students appreciate this.”

The students are lined up in the chapel basement before the convocation according to Anderson’s plan, which he must construct for each set of graduates. Twelve assistant faculty marshals and 20

Canterbury Club meetings are held on Tuesday night between 8 and 10 p.m. at Ida Noyes Hall. The first meeting of the fall term will be a very special occasion for Episcopal students. At this initial meeting on October 5, students and faculty combined are invited to a reception in honor of the Rt. Rev. Gerald F. Burrill, the Episcopal Bishop of Chicago. Cannon Bernard hidings Bell is the priest and spiritual advisor to campus Episcopalians.

Move Services

Communion services of the Episcopal Church will be returned to the newly renovated Bond Chapel beginning Octotar 3, at 8:30 a.m.

The Charles Gilkey Foundation is a Baptist-sponsored program of religious ministry to students of the Baptist Church. The activities of the Foundation are centered at the Hyde Park Baptist Church which in turn sponsors the Bap list Student Fellowship. Friday evenings from 7:30 to 10 p.m are open house nights at the church for student Baptists.

Christian Science services are conducted weekly at Hilton Memorial Chapel on Tuesdays at 7 p.m. The purpose of the Christian Science college group on campus is to “enlighten the University community concerning Christian Science and to provide opportunities for fellowship and activity among members of the University who are interested in Christian Science.”

student aides appointed by the Chancellor on the recommenda tion of the marshal, assist Ander son in seeing that the students line up correctly, and are pre rented in the proper order.

Plans Go Astray

Even with this careful planning, and ten years experience in carrying out convocation, things can still happen to upset the plan Anderson remembers one man and wife, Dorothy and Robert who were to receive the same degree. Dorothy decided after they were already lined up on the floor just a few feet from the Chancellor that it would be nice for Robert to get his degree first, so she stepped behind him

The dean read the name Dor othy —, loked up. saw a man.

thought and in skipped quickly

he had made a mistake, looking down again ten names. Anderson corrected the dean and

put Dorothy where she belonged in line, but not without some confusion.

Besides

Anderson

Other Jota

managing the lineups, must see that all other

arrangements are made for convocation. “It’s on my mind all

the time,” . amount of make each ful.

Anderson

Anderson says of the planning required to convocation successreminds everyone of

their responsibility, from the building and grounds people who must set up the chairs in the basement, to Chancellor Kimpton himself. who must keep the date open, and arrange for the speaker.

About two weeks before convocation, letters are sent to the tentative list of graduates, telling them when to appear. With UC tests as they are, the final plans

^on'Depart men tai Clubs Further Academic Interests; Study

Language, Medicine ,Physics

Not all University of Chicago student organizations are academic in nature, but a student who wants to learn about French culture, or Italian music, art, or literature, increase his knowledge and skills in physics, improve his understanding of spoken German, or even learn how to enter medical school will find a UC club waiting for him. Besides the departmental groups formed by members of a particular school or department for social and academic purposes, many non departmental clubs exist for the furthering of academic interests.

The Physics club, the Humboldt club,- and others of these groups report that membership is composed primarily of undergraduate students, the clubs seldom require more than slight proficiency for membership. Of course, the more a member already knows, the less will be “over his head.” For example. Marjorie Levis, president of the Italian club, states, ' A knowledge of the Italian language is helpful, but not an absolute necessity.” She goes on to say, “Lectures are often given in Italian, but the meetings are conduct

-OF5F R_\^no<$. hyoepark 3'4500

University Marshal Harold A, Anderson, shown in complete academic dress during the proceedings of the recent dedication of the American Bar Association headquarters.

can be made only a few days before convocation, when the final lists of graduates are available.

Pick Aides

No rehearsals are held for UC convocations, but the student aides, who are picked on the basis of scholarship, contributions to the life of the University, and “reasonable pulchritude,” meet to receive assignments so that at every place where a student might become confused, an aide will be there to steer him correctly.

In case one might think that all this is quite a lot for one man to manage. Anderson’s main position is that of assistant professor of education and director of student teaching.

ed in English.” Humboldt club lectures, according to president William Tempter, “are given in simple German which progressively become more difficult and interesting as the year draws to a close.”

The Physics club has the facilities of some electronic equipment and a lab room in the basement of Ryerson for the projects which its members undertake, although Rob Marcus, past president of the group notes that members take part in the projects only “if they

so wish.” This year the club work with a large Tesla coil radio astronomy. Speakers tours were sponsored by

will a nd and the

groups last year and plans are to continue this program. Meetings are held on alternate Wednesdays starting October 6, in Eckhardt 209 at 7:30 p.m.

Of the Pre Medical club, W. R. Wilson, past president, says. “The club has three main functions. Regular weekly meetings and frequent social events give members a chance to get acquainted with students with similar interests. At the meetings, speakers, films, and student discussions give members a chance to find out more about the fields they are interested in and to get useful information about medical school requirements, finances, the draft, etc.” A picnic for new members is planned at the point early in October, according to Wilson. Page 16

THE CHICAGO MAROON.

September 24, 1954

Student Clubs Sail,

Shoot, Run, Racquet

Four of the many clubs and groups on campus are distinguished by their particular athletic aims.

The Rifle Club promotes absolute control and coordination with small arms. The Track Club furthers participation in cross country, track, and field events.

The Badminton Club advances friendly play of that sport;

and the Sailing Club seeks to develop efficient — and upright — sailors.

The Rifle Club was once generally known as the Rifle and Pistol Qub, but, according to one school of small arms lore, abandoned the smaller arms because the walls of the Fieldhouse practice range are too thin to withstand the impact of a pistol bullet. Rifle

Lurching, jumping, and leaning, three WAA members gain "relief from the tensions of academic work."

coach Frank Karcher’s comment: “We won’t go into that or talk about it.”

“We’d Desire”

Coach Karcher did go into his Club’s program for the coming year. Students who wish to take part in it need only a “desire to do.” Rifles, shooting-coats, and scopes for precision shooting are provided by the club. Skill with a rifle will be developed throughout the year, and can be demonstrated in matches every two weeks and in the big annual Western Conference match.

The Track Club is a recent addition to official campus groups. Existing informally since 1950, it became an officially organized student activity only last year.

The reason for an organization beyond the varsity track and cross country teams lies in the great number of graduate students at the University.

Run for Fun

Many of these have exhausted their college eligibility but continue to “run for fun.” And so the Track Club gives Jhem sponsorship. Members of'active varsity and JV teams also compete under

day afternoons from November 7, the Club plays intrasquad games and against other local clubs. After games the coed group usually holds informal get togethers.

Sailors Begin Sailing

Tomorrow will find UC sailors oufon Lake Michigan, getting the Fall sailing season underway. Downtown at Columbia Yacht Club the Sailing Club shares a fleet of boats with the clubs of Northwestern and Illinois Tech.

These facilities are open to all club members every w’eekend and on several weekdays through November.

Columbia Y. C. is also, the Chicago area center for inter-collegiate racing. All three local schools are regular members of the Midwest Collegiate Sailing Association (MCSA).

The Association provides a full program of regattas for twenty-six schools, from Ohio to Minnesota.

Team Travels

This Fall the UC racing team will travel to Michigan State, Michigan, and Wisconsin, as well as sponsoring two meets here. The athletic department has announced that it is considering giving awards in sailing, the only inter-collegiate sport in which both men and women compete.

The Midway mariners also provide a program of instruction in elementary and advanced sailing and racing for club members. Parties following every regatta round out the sailors’ program.

Intramural Sports Begin Soon;Tennij Tou ch ba 11 Featu re

Intramural Director K o o m a n Boycheff announced that entries for intramural touchball and tennis close on October 2. College, fraternity and divisional houses that wash to enter teams should file their entries with him in Bartlett 105 before that date.

Competition between seven-man touchball teams will begin October 11. Most games played in the college and divisional house leagues will take place on the sunken grassy part of the Midway. The fraternity hquse league will play on North Field, behind the fieldhouse. No blocking is allowed in these games.

Tennis competition begins the same day. Organizations may enter any number of two-man teams. Each team may play two singles and one doubles match. Matches are decided by the best two out of three, and the series by the best two out of three matches. Holders of the major “C” in tennis are not allowed to c Qmpete.

Two other intramural sports are scheduled this autumn. Entries close for table tennis competition on October 16. Play begins October 20. Teams of six men will play six singles and three doubles matches. The best two out of three 21 point games wins a match.

Swimming entries close November 2. Competition in that sport begins November 9. Six events including two relays will be run off in Bartlett pool. As with tennis, no holders of the varsity “C” in the sport are allowed to compete in the intramurals.

this sponsorship.

Last year’s Club activities were various but successful. On Thanksgiving Day the team won the Central AAU 5,000 meter run. On New Year’s Day they sponsored a “holiday meet” which attracted Don Gehrman, Lawton Lamb, and many other Midwest stars. In June they relaxed after the CYO meet by picnicking at the point.

Lawton Lamb is the only Track Club member who is not now a registered student. Coach Ted Haydon will welcome anyone who likes to run—whether of Lamb’s caliber or not — in Washington Park during the fail, in the Fieldhouse in winter, and on Stagg Field during the spring.

The Badminton Club is more social than the rifle or Hack groups. Meeting in Ida Noyes Hall on Sun UNIVERSITY FOOD

1129 E. 55th St.

OPEN DAILY 9 A.M. - 9:30 P.M. Including Sunday — Closed Friday

5% NSA discount on purchase of S3 or more

Chy Club

F^fidwioui G^A^i

Set your City Club dealer for the beautiful, new, comfort* able and casual City Club shoes distinctive and styled right.

While you're at it get your FREE colorful 'pin up' GALenderg of luscious models In full color They're styled right toot Or write Peters Shoe Co., Dept. CN-i 1505 Washington Ave, St louis J. Mo.

Women's Athletics Highlight Annual Basketball Tourney

This is the year of the 20th annual Women’s Athletic Association (WAA) Basketball Playday. It is the largest event of the largest women’s association on campus. Between eighty and one-hundred members of WAA will take some role in this year’s competition.

The Playday will involve up to fifteen other schools and

will be open to all women students.

Preceding each year’s event is an intramural and interdorm basketball tourney to determine the four teams that will represent Chicago in interschool play.

Although these four have not been extremely successful in the past, WAA feels that the Playday fulfills its purpose: “to increase a student’s circle of acquaintances

in addition to improving sport skills and providing a relief from the tensions of academic work.”

The annual spring awards banquet is the other big yearly WAA activity. Miss Martha Kloo, WAA faculty sponsor, and Elenie Kostopoulos, this year's WAA president, will preside. “C” sweaters and big and little “C” letters will again be awarded for consistently outstanding performance.

I WAS AWARDED A RIBBON

AND PROMPTLY PUT IT IN MY TYPEWRITER

First of all —how come?

How do I come to be writing a column for Philip Morris in your campus newspaper?

I’ll tell you how come:

It all began on a summer night. The air was warm, the sky was full of stars, and I sat in a cane-bottomed chair on my verandah, J>eaceful and serene, smoking a cigarette, humming the largo from )eath and Transfiguration, and worming my dog.

Into this idyllic scene came a stranger — a tall, clean limbed stranger, crinkly-eyed and crooked-grinned, loose and lank. “How do you do,” he said. “My name is Loose Lank and I am with the Philip Morris people.”

“Enchanted,” I said. “Take ott your homburg and sit down.” I clapped my hands. “Charles!” I called. “Another chair for Mr. Lank.”

Obediently my dog trotted away and returned directly with a fan-back chair of Malays rattan. He is the smartest dog in our block.

“I’m sorry I don’t have a Morris chair,” I said to Mr. Lank. “That would be rather more appropriate — you being with Philip Morris and all.”

Well, sir, we had many a laugh and cheer over my little witticisni. When we had finished laughing and cheering, we wiped our eyes and Mr. Lank pulled out a fresh package of Philip Morris. He yanked the tape and the pack sprang open with a fetching little snap.

“Did you hear that fetching little snap?” asked Mr. Lank.

“Yes,” I said, for I did.

“Cigarette?” he said.

“Thank you,” I said.

We puffed contentedly for three or four hours. Then Mr. Lank said, “I suppose you’re wondering why I’m here.”

“Well,” I replied, my old eyes twinkling, “1’11 wager you didn't come to read my meter.”

You can imagine how we howled at that one!

“That’s a doozy!” cried Mr. Lank, giggling wildly. “I must remember to tell it to Alice when I get home.”

“Your wife?” I said.

“My father,” he said.

“Oh,” I said.

“Well,” he said, “let's get down to business ... How would you like to write a campus column for Philip Morris?”

“For money?” I said.

“Yes,” he said.

“My hand, sir,” I said and clasped his. Warmly he returned the pressure, and soft smiles played on our lips, and our eyes were bright with the hint of tears, and we were silent, not trusting ourselves to speak.

“Cigarette?” he said at length.

I nodded.

We lit up and puffed contentedly for eight or ten hours. “I understand you’ve made quite a study of college students,” said Mr. Lank.

“Yes,” I said, blushing modestly. “I have been collecting them for years. I have over four thousand students in my basement right now.”

“In mint condition?” he said incredulously.

“Students don’t come in mint condition,” I explained. “They go to great expense to acquire the ‘beat-up look.’ ”

“How interesting,” he said. “Tell me something more about themtheir feeding habits, for example.”

“They are omnivores of prodigious appetite,” I said. “It is wise not to leave food about when they are present. Their favorite food is a dish called the Varsity Gasser — one scoop raspberry ice, one scoop raw hamburger, leechee nuts and maple syrup.”

“Fascinating,” said Mr. Lank. “And what are students interested in chiefly?”

“Each other,” I replied. “Boy students are interested in girl students, and girl students are interested in bov students.”

"This seems to me an admirable arrangement,” said Mr. Lank.* “But is it true even in these parlous days of worldwide tension and dreadful armaments?”

“It is always true,” I said. “It isn't that college students don’t know what’s going on in the world. They know all too well. They’re perfectly aware of the number of lumps waiting for them ... But meanwhile the limbs are springy and the juices run strong and time is fleeting.”

“What will you write about in your column?” asked Mr. Lank.

4About boys and girls,” I said. “About fraternities and sororities and dormitories and boarding houses and dances and sleighrides and hayrides and cutting classes and going to classes and cramming for exams and campus politics and the profits of bookstores aryl convertibles and BMOCs and BWOCs and professors who write new texts every year and the world’s slowest humans — the page boys at the library.”

MAn^ w^‘ y°u sy a pleasant word about Philip Morris from time to time?” asked Mr. Lank.

replied, “I can think of no other kind of word to say about Philip Morris.”

We shook hands again then, and smiled bravely. Then he was gone — a tall silhouette moving erectly into the setting sun. “Farewell good tobacconist!” I cried after him. “Aloha, aloha!”

And turned with a will to my typewriter. ©Max shuiman, ism

This column is brought to you by the makers of PHILIP MORRIS who think you would enjoy their cigarette. r '

I September 24, 1954

i M^^ --Runners, Kickers at it Again

Hope for More Laurels;

Expect Many Less Thugs

by Spike Pinney

Both the varsity soccer and cross country teams are looking forward to another interesting season this fall — but in different ways.

Last year’s soccer season was memorable not for its middling 4-won 1-tied 3-lost tally, but for its violence and roughness. Just how rough the season was may be judged from what happened to fullback Pete Rosen. He headed the ball the wrong way past his own goalie Gerry Czamanske to give Wheaton College a 1-0 victory.

That night Rosen was set

Which twin has the medal? Chicago's Frank Lobmos downs his identical twin brother Ted Loomos (running on the left for Bradley! and three other doshmen os Chicago beats Bradley, Northwestern ond Loyola tn a quadrangular meet lost year. Chicago trackmen lost only two meets from January through June.

upon by thugs; the last words he remembers hearing before losing consciousness were: "Czamanske sent us.” Both Rosen and Czamanske were subsequently chosen to the all-conference team, possibly for their fighting spirits.

Cross Country Optimist is

The cross country boys look forward to laurels on their brows instead of bumps. Undefeated in eight meets last year, the team appears stronger than ever. Jim Flynn, Paul Baptist, Art Omohundro, Ken Stapley, Ray Sanders, and Johnny Smothers will be joined by several veteran runners who have transferred to Chicago. Together the group should be even more formidable than last year’s undefeated team. As Coach Ted Haydon said, “We look very strong.”

Other varsity teams have varied expectations. The track team will do well to repeat their 16-1-2 record even with dash and hurdle star Frank Loomos and many others returning. Tennis coach

Bill Moyle is repeating his fall tennis experiment which had great success last fall but didn’t prove a panacea for the spring season.

Bulletin includes information on the extensive JV program which follows the varsity setup in almost all features except its level of competition.

Members of Robinhood's Mcrrie Men at UC conducted o campaign during the summer to urge UC students to write their respective senators to support the then pending motions for the censuring of Senator Mc Carthy.

Shown left are Audrey Stern, writing letter, and looking on (I.

to

orc Barbaro Vogc Honger,

Emil Johnson, Rene Jones, ond Perry Goldberg.

The Robinhood band sent a letter to Senator Douglas explaining that the Merrie Men were opposed to Mc Carthy because his influence stifled free inquiry.

Other Athletics Outlined

Wrestling, swimming, fencing, basketball and gymnastics begin practice this fall for their^winter competition. Chicago’s famous Acrotheatre, a combination of tumbling, ballet, adagio and musical comedy, will work through Lie year toward their big spring show.

All athletic regulations, results, and rewards are listed in the slim yellow-covered Sports Bulletin, available in Bartlett Gym and at the Reynolds Club desk. The

Political Participation Common

In Many Student Groups

University of Chicago students have always been widely known for their participation in political activity both on and off campus. Each year new political groups are formed to meet the changing interests of students.

The most recent additions to the campus political scene have been Robin Hood’s Merrie Men, Students for Douglas, and

I Maze of Wires, Plugs Don’t

। Muddle UC Phone Operators

The gruff male voice that answers your campus phone with a “Yeah?” at night can easily be explained by the absence of the trained daytime operators, who vacate the switchboard at 11 p.m., leaving the switchboard in the hands of the less delicate night guard.

Similar simple explanations are available for your being suddenly included in the date plans of Barbs and Joe (“Be sure to come formal, kid”), for those resonant clicks and buzzes, and for the occasional lengthy waits you encounter. 

Committee for Barrett O’Hara.

Opposes Mc Carthyism

The Robin Hood group was one of the largest campus political groups last spring. The organization was formed to fight Mc Carthyism and stand opposed to all undemocratic political groups. This summer the Robin Hood band conducted a letter writing campaign to urge Illinois senators to support the censure motions pending against Senator Mc Carthy.

National Policies Supported

The Students for Douglas is a temporary organization which will work for the re-election of Paul H. Douglas to the U. S. Senate. Douglas is a former member of the economics faculty.

The Student-Faculty Committee for Barrett O’Hara is urging the reelection of O’Hara to the House of Representatives. O’Hara is presently serving in the House. He represents the second Congressional district of Illinois in which the University is located.

The Young Republicans and Young Democrats have chapters on campus. Both groups support the political platforms of the two major parties. The sponsoring of speakers is one of the main activities of these organizations.

NAACP Active

The National Association for the Advancement of Colored Peo UC phones operate on a 24- — hour-a-day, seven-day-a-week for the campus-only instruments, basis. New equipment is used There are from 12,000 to 22,90°

I — an 11-place “flexible” switchboard. When all trunks are in use sixty-five outgoing and 20 incoming Chicago calls can be handled । at one time, as well as eight long distance conversations. These trunks, wired to 1,900 terminals, : serve more than 2,000 instruments on campus.

Almost everyone is familiar with the small switchboards used in offices. There are 21 such setups on campus, all connected with the magnified version on the | sixth floor of the administration i building.

Lights Show Calls

This board, about 20 feet long, seats 11 operators in front of its seven tri-panels. When a call comes through, a small light flashes on three different panels. The first operator to answer the , fail (and it is within reach of all eleven) gives forth the familiar yes please” and gets the desired dumber by reaching through a blaze of about twenty wires and Pushing in the appropriate plug, ' while already cutting in on an®ihen- flash. Varied colors of sig Kal lights indicate the type of phone on that line: amber for an Unrestricted phone, white with a ^oss for a switchboard such as be one at B-J, and a white one

connections every day.

The switchboard can be operated manually or. can be converted to dial use throughout. The reason why some phones (those with numbers below 2300) are not handled by automatic relays is that some of the phones are restricted to campus use only to avoid needless expense for the University.

Relays on Seventh

The relays themselves, housed on the seventh floor of the Administration building, are a maze of wire that surpasses even that with which the operators contend on the switchboard panels. The wires are connected with little semi-circular boxes called selectors. A selector consists of discs the size about that of C-Shop saucers, and a rod which pushes them out when a number is dialed and pushes them back in after the party hangs up.

The ^lephone exchange also features a number of gadgets and special services, such as a mobile connection to a guard in a car prowling around the campus from five in the evening to seven in the morning, and including a conference circuit, available to anyone in the University, on which three or more people can talk or listen

at the same time. A circular file listing administrative, faculty personnel, is available in the telephone office for faster information service. Patients are listed at the Telepage in Billings, and inquiries about students are referred to University Information Service. Direct lines connect the switchboard with some of the more important off-campus buildings such as the Quadrangle Club and the Public Administration building.

Depress Hook Once

There are some things not generally known about our telephones. For instance, to recall an operator, it is sufficient to depress the receiver supports only once. Apart from the flashing light in front of the operator, a loud signal starts ringing in the office, and keeps ringing until the operator answers the call.

This monstrous mechanism is a far cry from the original oneposition board installed in Cobb Hall. The present set-up, first of its kind in Chicago, was installed

in July 1949. The room at 601 Administration Building was especially designed for the present equipment. Twenty-six employes, besides the night guard, are needed for its operation. Bell Telephone handles maintenance.

“Hold the Line”

This information y as given to the MAROON by Miss Gladys Burke, chief operator.

Miss Burke commented on occasional light touches that brighten the usually rigorous d a y of the hard working operator. For example, persons calling for Billings personnel often expect the operators to know their consultants personally. One woman wanted to speak to “that short old fellow with the white beard” while another patient insisted on being connected to the “one on the second floor with a cane.”

pies (NAACP) attracts wide participation at UC. The recent Suprement Court decision barring segregation in public schools will probably bring an expansion in NAACP activities.

The NAACP is not primarily a political group. The UC chapter considers those problems and prejudices which confront the Negro student in his sphere of activity. The chapter works to promote equality of the rights of Negro students with those of other students.

An important yearly activity of the NAACP is the sponsorship of a Negro history week in February. The week focuses attention upon the role of the Negro in American culture. Exhibits and lectures highlight this week.

Two student Socialist groups are presently active at UC. The Socialist Club stands for a general program of democratic socialists. The Young Socialist League (YSL) holds frequent discussions and talks on socialism. YSL stands strongly against capitalism and Soviet communism.

Graduate Group

The Faculty-Graduate Committee for Peace seeks means of bringing about peaceful alternatives to present international conflicts. The group’s membership consists mainly of older graduate students or faculty members.

A widely circulated “Report on Germany” was prepared by the Faculty-Graduate Committee for Peace two years ago. The report documented and showed concern for the rearmament of Germany.

Another recently formed group is the Crusade for Freedom. The Crusade for Freedom is affiliated with national groups which consider eastern Europe to be under the domination of the Soviet Union.

It's "Frosh" Now

For the first time in many years the University of Chicago has “freshmen.”

Until this year there was no such classification. New students were called simply “entering students.”

Under the old Bachelor’s program students received their year classification according to the number of comprehensive examinations they passed. An entering student, therefore, could be classed as a “third year” student by placing out of a certain number of courses.

Under the new AB entering students are just called “freshmen.”

FREE

Billiards & Pool

FREE

This coupon entitles bearer to 1 hour FREE Billiards or Pool (Value $0.55)

a Portraits by LOUISE. BARKER

Photographer 1457 E. 57rh Sr. BU 8-0876

REYNOLDS CLUB-2nd Floor

September 25 thru October 2

Saturday — 9:00 A.M. to 5:00 P.M T H f CHICAGO MAt OON

Sep^etwlxc 24, 1954

courtesy of cap and Gown International House

Quiz Program Opens Year

“Anyone interested in science fiction, fantasy, or any related field, or who just feels like attending our meetings, may belong.” Evan H. Appelman, of the Science Fiction club, said.

“If the student is interested creatively in the science fiction-fantasy field, for example in writing or doing art work, he will find much sympathetic aid and cooperation from the membership, and will be able to receive expert criticism from the professionals belonging to the group. If the student simply wishes to enjoy science fic.. . UC center for foreign students, at 59ih St. and Dorchester. This shot was taken across Midway Plaisance. The statue in the foreground is the Masaryk memorial statue.

International House

tion as a spectator, he or she will enjoy associating with other enthusiasts and with the professionals who have developed the field,’’ Appelman promised.

The first autumn meeting will lx' an audience participation quiz program with T. E. Dikty. of Shasta Publishers, as master of ceremonies. “The production of a satirical science fiction operetta, written by the noted science fiction television writer Julian May Dikty, is contemplated." Appelman said of plans for the coming year.

The club has sponsored a number of motion pictures on campus, such as The Shape of Things to Come and Adam to Atom. Plans

are to sponsor one or more movies this year, as well as a variety’ of guest speakers. Possible speakers for this year are authors Fritz Leiber, Jr., Frank M. Robinson, E. Smith and Rog Phillips; and editors and publishers Ray Palmer, William L. Hamling. and Beatrict Mahaffey, according to Appleman, who is a member of the programming committee.

In addition to about 20 student members, the club has about 30 members at-large. Including faculty, alumni, students at other Chicago universities, editors, publishers. authors, and other persons living in the Chicago area who are interested in science fiction.

UC Encampment Studies Government Active Democracy

The Encampment for Citizenship is connected with the Encampment held in New York City, which includes young people from all geographic, racial, religious and economic backgrounds.

The campus group, as is the other, is centered around the study of democratic government in action, and sponsors educational programs and encourages recruiting for the Encampment for Citizen, ship.

Anyone Interested In the F> campment’s program may join He will be informed and encouraged in the ideal of democracy, according to Hugh Brodkey, the president.

Lectures, workshops, and discussion groups are planned for the near future.

Houses Exchangees

Supplementing the formal educational facilities of Chicago for the student who comes from abroad is one of America’s unique institutions — International House. To this residence each year come more than 1,000 college students and teachers from about 40 foreign countries and from all over the United States.

The group life stress the promotion of international understanding among individuals of diverse nationalities and interests.*

In its physical facilities. International House is equipped with many conveniences. The dormitory has accommodations for 524 men and women students, each resident having a combined study and bedroom of his own. completely furnished and according to a former resident, unusually comfortable. Linens are supplied, as well as maid service.

Many recreational facilities are available to members of the House. In addition to the general lounges and reception rooms, both men and women have social rooms within their dormitories. On another floor are six rooms

where national and international groups gather for discussions, teas, banquets, committee meetings, informal dances, and similar affairs

A large dining room offers cafeteria service at reasonable rates with a varied menu of American and foreign dishes. In addition, there is a coffee shop open throughout the afternoon and evening for light refreshments

Other facilities, such as a barber shop, a valet shop, a gift shop, and the like, are maintained for the convenience of residents.

International House is situated between two of Chicago’s most extensive parks, yet within easy reach by IC, bus and streetcar of every part of the city.

Fraternities...

(from page Hi

fees according to Stone, run from $40 to $100. Fraternity room and hoard expenses are roughly equal to those of university housing, with room costing from $25 to $30 a month, suppers costing about $1 and lunches from 60 cents.

Those who dislike dormitory life may find the atmosphere of fraternities refreshing. Although some time of each member’s routine must be set aside for fraternity activities, fraternities do observe “quiet hours" which is more than can be said for most dormitories.

Barriers Falling

The natural, but unfortunate, by-product of fraternity camaraderie has been a tendency for UC chapters to become clannish, something about which Chancellor Kimpton chided them. The Inter-Fraternity council is fighting this tendency by encouraging fraternity wo > projects and fratemity-sponsored all-campus functions. The walls which many fraternities have set up between themselves and the rest of the

SG Offers Tours

Of City, Campus

Student Government is sponsoring several tours of Chicago, which will leave from the Reynolds Club as follows:

Tuesday, September 28—9:30 a m 1 p.m and 1:30 p m. 5 p m

Wednesday, September 29 9:30 a.m.-l p.m. & 1:30 p.m. 5 p.m.

Saturday, October 2—10:30 a.m. 3 p.m. (lunch en route)

Tickets for th *s? tours may be bought for 25 cents at the Student Government booth at Divisional Night (7:30 p.m. on Monday. September 27. at Ida Noyes hall), or at the Student Service Center (in the basement of the Reynolds Club) up to two days before each tour.

Student Government is also sponsoring tours of the campus, which will leave from the information desk in the Administration building at 12:30 p.m. and 4 p.m., on Monday through Friday of the first week of the autumn quarter. These tours are without charge, and will last about one hour.

campus have been falling, accoid ing to Stone. • ,

Fraternity members are joining other extra curricular organizations. Some idea of the extent

to which this broadening has already progressed is hinted at in the frequent reference to one fratemity as a “Student Government dormitory.” '

...AND HOW IT STARTED

^roi

•mnt

Creator of Broadway's Giant Spectaculars

^erz/(/(iiiti M. .git /-^Zl^

CAMELS

AGREE WITH MORE PEOPLE THAN ANY OTHER CIGARETTE

SUCCESS STORY Camel* Americas most popular cigarette ...by fart

/ c/arfed Qvo&tg in co Hege. ^or/7y^nc /ve enjoyed Gwe/dcnioo/h m/7dhe& and good, rich g/acon

kx/ ought io ity Can^eg/ *

Douglas Leigh says: “After leaving the University of Florida (where rd sold yearbook ads), 1 had big. crazy ideas about making new kinds of spectacular displays. So I bought a Brownie and went to New York to photograph rooftops. My first sign was a huge, steaming coffee cup on Broadway. At age 23 I was starting to learn an exciting business!*’

START SMOKING CAMELS YOURSELF! Make the 30-day Camel Mildness Test. See how Camels give you more pure pleasure! See for yourself why Camels’ cool mildneas and rich flavor agree with more people than any other cigarette!

R J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, Wiuiton-Salem, N. C September 24, 1954

THE CHICAGO MAROON

Fage 19

Travel and Eateries Analyzed

Good Food, Atmosphere, Low Prices List the' How’ of Travel

Offered By Neighborhood

Restaurants

by Jan Majde

Virtually all restaurants in the city of Chicago are privately curated enterprises.

Tn the USSR, almost all the eating places are owned by the state, reports a MAROON staffer who traveled there last year.

The Chicago Board of Health could give the MAROON no information on this subject in the city.

This may or may not be significant.

Define Money

Definition: money, n.—Anything customarily used as a medium of exchange and a measure of value, as sheep, wampum, gold

Definition: food. n. Nutritive material taken into an organism for growth, work or repair, and for maintaining the vital processes. The complex organic substances that form a large portion of the food of animals fall into three main classes: proteins, carbohydrates, and fats. Cf. CALORIE. VITAMIN; nutriment in solid form, anything that nourishes or sustains.

Like solid nutriment for animals; a large portion of the restaurants in the UC area may be said to fall into three main classes: those on campus itself, those from 58th street north to 53rd street, and those from the Midway south to 63rd. Whether, and how well they will nourish and sustain you depends to a large degree on your supply of the medium of exchange, and the measure of value you place upon it.

Going towards campus from 53rd, we first find Pane’s pizzeria just past the Illinois Central tracks on 53rd. A half a block closer, on the corner of 53rd and Lake Park, are the B/G and Le Meck’s. B/G is proud of its bottomless cup of coffee, i.e. for a dime the waitress will fill your cup all night.

List Service

Its egg rolls are particularly worth trying.

Cones Offered

Finally, if you want an ice cream cone, you can get a large one for ten cents at the corner of 55th and University.

Moving down to 57th, we first come to two new restaurants, both established within the las* year. First, there is the Gourmet, on the corner of 57th and Lake Park. The dinners there, which can be bought for under $3. are sufficient in both taste and quantity, although it has been said by at least one student that it has continental pretensions without continental quality. The Mecca is rep*.ted to have good exotic dinners (though it is not a place to go for a snack) and a choleric chef.

On the southwest corner of 57th and Kenwood there is Stineway’s. The place burned down a few years ago, and the rebuilt version features a fishbowl-like plate glass window along 57th. The furnishings are real collegiate. The prices are exorbitant.

S

A typical bus stop in Chicago's transportation system, as students embark on a guided tour of the city.

Public transportation in the city of Chicago suffers from a well-seated reputation for being slow, complicated, and roundabout. However, most authorities will agree that while almost all of the complaints were justified as recently as five years ago, there has since been a general improvement in the services offered.

If you want to arrive at your destination quickly, the first general rule to remember is: disregard the official instructions. Both the Chicago Transit Authority and the Illinois Central

Le Meck’s is connected with a bar, goes in for lengthy service, real linen napkins, intimate lighting, and shrimp cocktails, which contain three shrimps, a leaf of lettuce, and lots and lots of ketchup, all for 75 cents.

Also on 53rd street is the Hobby House. Located on Kenwood, it attempts to provide the real olde

Restaurants Listed

On the same side of the street, but a few doors down towards the quadrangles stands Gordon’s. (There is another Gordon’s on 53rd.) It has piped-in EM music, somewhat uncomfortable seats, and reasonable meals available for approximately 80 cents. Both Stineway’s and Gordon’s, as well as the third restaurant on 57th, the Tropical Hut, are well attended by students, since they are very .convenient to campus.

The T-hut has a pseudo South Seas atmosphere, tries to be high class. Until last year, girls had to wear dresses after 9 p.m. to get in. There is also a headwaiter. Prices ahd sandwichy foods are similar to that of Gordon's.

On the corner of 58th and Cottage Grove there is a surprisingly clean “greasy spoon,” where a lot

of truckers and high University, officials eat. It is within very convenient reach of the Administration building, and of Cobb hall. Prices are low.

Wampum Illegal

So much for the north side of the campus eateries. None of the above places will trade wampum, and it has been illegal in the US to possess more than one ounce of gold, except for ornamental purposes for quite some time.

Of the eating places on campus, the Hutchinson Commons and the C- (for all-Chicago) shop are the most prominent, apart from the men’s and women's dining halls. The periodic rumors that the hamburgers and frankfurters in the C-shop are either horse meat, or non-inspected beef are usually unfounded.

Commons Has Food

The Commons are patterned after the dining hall of Magdalen College in Oxford, even unto the unwashed windows. Portraits of UC’s famous line the walls. Do not let .the atmosphere of the place mislead you: some of the people in the drawings are still alive. Nor must you think of the cheerfully tiled cafeteria line as of the cheerful undertaker’s parlor. Any resemblance is purely coincidental.

The food is alleged to be

nutri English atmosphere by putting up* oak paneling, olde English prints, and a chrome bar. It is open all night. Lots of students go there. The olde English prints are screwed down to the walls. The barbequed beef sandwich there is well worth the 85 cents charged, and its scrambled eggs and toast are similar in quantity and the 45 cent price to any served at the 63rd street greasy spoons, while they are infinitely more hygenical.

On 55th street, in a position analogous to that of Pane’s on 53rd, there is the Good Eats cafe. Run by a Japanese couple, it has a few Japanese dishes on the. menu, as well as a large selection of complete home cooked dinners.

with

cents

On

a price range between 90 and $1.40.

Serve Pizza

55th and Lake Park, distributed on both sides of the street are the Highland, Gladys’s and Pizzeria Como. Of these, the pizzeria is worthy of note for its really ample and well-cooked hot sandwiches.

Further down, on 55th and Kimbark, there is another Italian tan rant. Nicky’s, open Saturdays until 4 a.m., other days until 2- It will deliver a small pizza for 85 cents.

Of all the Chinese restaurants on 55th, Jane Lee’s on the corner 11 Woodlawn and 55th stands out : insofar as the size of the meals, size of the prices, and amount o Y cleanliness go.

w

And then I got off at 63rd Street

tious. Despite all these things, you can usually get a good meal there for around 85 cents.

In B-J basement there is a snack-bar run by students. It is usually open evenings, although the hours vary occasionally, and makes very good and cheap sandwiches. Billings hospital has a cafeteria, adorned with murals, which the students may use. The food there should be nutritious.

In the International House, there is a good cafeteria * which serves a greater variety of food than any other on campus. There is also a snack shop, open till 10:15 p.m.

The Bookstore, opposite Cobb hall, sells sandwiches, cookies, candy, and strange hot dogs, cut open on both ends. The hot dogs emerge from the electric warmer wrapped in wax paper, which is secured with a piece of colorful tape. Unlike many items in the Bookstore, this piece of tape is free, and you may keep it after you have.eaten the sandwich.

The Italian Fiesta Pizzeria serves excellent pizza and provides a convenient delivery service from 5 p.m. to 3 a.m., seven days per week. The Fiesta special is well worth trying. It is a large pizza divided in quarters, with mushroom, sausage, peppers, anchovies. Italian Fiesta Pizzeria is located at 1437 E. 67th street.

In the opinion of MAROON staffers, the best low to medium priced dinner in the University area is served at the Collier House restaurant. The menu does not offer a wide selection, but all items are the closest to home cooking away from home. Collier House is located at 6324 Woodlawn avenue.

No Discrimination

On 61st and Ellis, only a block from B-J is Reader’s the drugstore with a turnstile, and ten-year-old photographs of the campus. The red C-sticker, which you will see on the door, means only that the restaurant does not discriminate. It does not imply any other form of approval on the part of the Student Government.

Alexander’s is one of the two major restaurants on 63rd. The other one is another Hobby House, on 63rd and Kenwood. Located half a block east of University. it is open all night. It, too, serves not too-bad dinners until 9 p.m.

Two “greasy spoons” along 63rd are worth mentioning. The first, on University, is also unusually clean. The other, on Greenwood, while hygienically somewhat imperfect is the only one open all night for the space of eight blocks. You can get meals in both for 40-50 cents. The ptomaine row stretches ahead. Did you know that an ancient Greek tradition had it that once you have partaken of the food of the dead, you can never leave Hades?

suburban service issue directions which are simple to follow, but which are not really convenient.

Give Shortcut

The commuter from N6rth and West sides will find that he can save as much as ten minutes by disembarking on the 51st street “L” station, instead of at 63rd and University. He then takes the bus which, going east and south, will turn into Cottage Grove, and eventually into 55th. Getting off at Ellis, he is three blocks north of Cobb hall. Ellis is recognizable by the large Frolic theatre marquee three doors from the corner.

When you oversleep on the train and miss 51st street, you can still get off at 61st street if you are on a “B” (Jackson Park) train. You then catch the bus going cast, and arrive back of Burt on-Judson, by Reader’s drugstore.

There is a station called University on 63rd street (the “L” has turned due east on 63rd) which you can reach by continuing to ride your “B” train. However, your ride there will be interrupted by a wait en route in the CTA switching yards, and you will have to backtrack four to five long

blocks do not saying cago.”

to get back to campus, so be misled by large signs “The University of Chi Tell Advantages

There is one more advantage to taking the 51st-55th route over the other two: you will not have to cross the Midway during the winter, and no one who doesn't have to do it should attempt it: it's pretty cold with the east wind blowing, and both the through streets and the wooden walks are slippery. The first time you slip off the University ave. walk and land up to your thighs in snow and muck, you are liable not to appreciate it.

* The trip from the Loop to Cobb hall via 51st street has been timed at 28 minutes.

Both the commuters and the students who live on the Quadrangles will probably appreciate the 12 minute ride from 57th to the Loop offered by the Illinois Central. IC carries smoking compartments in the north end of the train (no matter which way the train'is going). All the express trains stop at 57th street station; none of the specials do.

Explain Stops

Watch out for the IC nomenclature. All IC stations are named after two or more streets, since they are a block long. Thus the 57th street station is the 55th. 56th and 57th st. station, with exits on all three.

IC is the best means of transportation into the Loop if you are within convenient walking distance of either of the two “University” stations. However, there is no transfer service between IC and CTA. IC trains are scheduled eight minutes apart during the day.

CTA provides a better service at night. The 55th street bus stops at Ellis a quarter of an hour before and after a given hour after midnight. The 51st st. “L” comes every 15 minutes during the “owl” hours.

As far as discounts provided by the two services are concerned, IC issues, at reduced rates, ten and 30 ride commutation tickets. College commuters who have not yet received their 12th grade certificate are eligible for the CTA student pass, which entitles you to a ten cent ride at any time of the day or night. September 24, 1954

i*age 20

THE CHICAGO MAROON

Rhodes Scholarships Available for UCers

UCers who wish to attend Oxford University may be eligible for Rhodes scholarships according to Dr. Robert H. Ebert, Institutional Representative on campus.

To be considered'as a candidate an applicant must: (1) be a male citizen of the United States with at least five years’ domicile and unmarried; (2) be between the ages of nineteen and twenty-five on October 1, 1954, although candidates who would otherwise be over

the age limit but who have actively served in the Armed Forces of the United States at least

fondness for and success in sports. Committees of Selection are looking for well-rounded men who have some definite quality of distinction in intellect or char—— '' ——m

It’s Here! First GIANT Issue!

SHAFT COLLEGE HUMOR

Read: "Does Cancer Cause Cigarettes?" See: "World’s Worst Lover!"

AND More Gags, More Cartoons, MORE THRILLS! MORE Old-Fashioned Campus Humor!

Get SHAFT Today at: U of C Bookstore

ninety days since June 27, 1950, may subtract the period of their service from their actual age: (3> have at least Junior standing at the time of application: (4) receive official endorsement from his university.

In accordance with the will left by Cecil Rhodes, candidates will be judged on the basis of: (1) literary. and scholastic ability and attainments; (2) qualities of manhood. truth, courage, devotion to duty, sympathy, kindliness, unselfishness, and fellowship; (3) exhibition of moral force of character and of instincts to lead and to take an interest in his fellow’s; (4) physical vigor, as shown by

Classified Ad Policy

Students, faculty members, and other University employees may insert classified ads in the MAROON at a special discount rate. The first 15 words cost 50c and each additional word is 5c.

For all persons not connected with the University the classified ad rate is 10c per word.

All services, rooms, etc. offered in MAROON advertisements must be available to all students without restrictions as to race, religion, and national origin.

The deadline for classified ads is 12 noon on Wednesdays. Ads must be brought to the MAROON office, Reynolds Club 202. No classified ads will be accepted by phone.

For Sale

Enlarger, photographic, like new Elwood Miniature. Negatives 35mm—2 l A3l/4 48" upright. Joe Wolf , ES 5-1615.

Used drapes, bedspread. Call NO 7-6786 after Monday.

There is no place else except the Student Government Book Exchange (Reynolds Club Basement) where you can buy at half price all eight volumes of the Syllabi for the College History course.

Ford 1954—For the best buy see Pat

Redden, 5518 Lake Park Ave

This is it. Kodachrome, Super X and Super XX 16mm magazine load movie film. All film is fresh. I just bought too much. so will cut 45% off original retail price. Inquire Box 100, MAROON.

Services

Moving? Don’t impose on your friends? Let PRIME MOVERS do the job. Call evenings PL 2-6412.

acter.

The value of a Rhodes Scholarship is six hundred pounds per year. Appointment to a Rhodes Scholarship is made for two years initially and may be extended for a third year if the scholar’s record at Oxford and plan of study warrant. The scholar may pursue any course of studies.

Applications are made either from the state in which the candidate resides or from the state in which he has received at least two years of his college education. Elections t Rhodes Scholarships will be held in December, 1953. Successful candidates will enter Oxford in October. 1954.

Further information and application blanks may be obtained from Dr. Robert H. Ebert, or his secretary. Lois Reeves, in Billings Hospital, Room W617.

TO THE CLASS OF ’58!

Portraits, all other photography. Top quality, quick service, low prices. Act now. Joe Wolf, ES 5-1615.

CHESTERFIELD IS THE LARGEST SELLING

Mathematic, special instruction to fit your mathematical needs. Individual or group sessions. Albert Soglin. ST 2-6727.

Rent an electric refrigerator as low as $4 per month. Also, we repair refrigerators. CO 4-9231.

CIGARETTE IN AMERICA’S COLLEGES

Need some typing done? Call Kathleen Kenagy. BO 8-2068.

THIS Chesterfield leadership is shown by actual sales audits in more than 800 college co-ops and

this! You will like Chesterfield best because only Chesterfield has the right combination of the

• Rooms to Share

Conventional-minded chaps need not apply to share exquisitely decayed 5 rooms. $25 per month. FA 4-0525.

campus stores from coast to coast

In choosing your cigarette be sure to remember

Help Wanted

Students—part-time selling, men’s and women’s apparel, over 100 items. Make $2-13 per hour. Call FR 2-0797 days, MI 3-7799, 6-8 p.m.

For Rent

world’s best tobaccos — highest in quality, low in nicotine — best for you. All of us smoke for relaxation, for comfort, for satisfaction — and in the whole wide world no cigarette satisfies like a Chesterfield.

You smoke with the greatest pleasure when your cigarette is Chesterfield ... Yes, these six words “highest in quality—low in nicotine” mean Chesterfield is best for you. Buy ’em king-size—or regular.

Newly decorated 2*2 and IV2 room furnished apartments. Reasonable rent. 6107 Dorchester. PL 2-9641, Avon apartments.

Wanted

Bass wanted for male quartet, other voices also considered. Dick Fireman, BU 8-9268.

CHESTERFIELD sesrso# nw

