Inside This Issue UC students and faculty cover sun’s eclipse from all angles Story on Page 3

Conferences and workshops attract schoolteachers to education department this summer ... Story on Page 4

Meet Felicia Anthenelli, new editor of the University of

Chicago Magazine Story on Page 3

University of Chicago, July 16, 1954

Schein Discovers Particle Beleived An Antiproton

Dr. Marcel Schein reported last Friday at the Seattle meeting of the American Physical Society that he has uncovered evidence that may prove the existence of the antiproton.

The UC professor of physics and affiliated with the Institute for Nuclear Studies captured the particle in a packet of nuclear emulsions, which are similar to photographic film, only thicker. The emulsions were carried by a high-altitude “skyhook” balloon 100,000 feet over Texas last winter and the discovery of the partible was made on April 30 by Mrs. Elizabeth Goodman, a scanner employed by the physics department.

Sees Rows of Electrons

What she saw was a narrow bundle of 21 “photo produced electron pairs.” Under the microscope

these electrons make a diagonal track of parallel rows of tiny dots across a series of ten photographic plates. This cascade is familiar to cosmic ray scientists as the paired electrons, positive and negative, traveling away from the “scene of annihilation.”

The annihilation reportedly occurred when the particle—the antiproton—tore through the films at an incredible speed and energy of ten billion volts before it struck a proton in the aluminum covering the film pack. The suspected antiproton and the proton were annihilated. Presumably both were converted into energy—as units of light, called photons. These were then reconverted into matter as the pairs of electrons.

Professor Bruno Rossi of Columbia University

Dr. Marcel Schein the Czechoslovak-born scientist who came to the US in 1938, reported last week the discovery of what he believed to be an anti-proton.

has observed a somewhat similar event in highaltitdue cloud chamber observations.

See ‘Schein’ Page 3

The American Bar Center is getting its finishing touches now as construction workers rush to ready the building for its dedication August 19. Chief Justice Earl R. Warren will give the major speech at the ceremony dedicating the building at 60th and Woodlawn.

1,000 Teachers Attend

Reading Conferance Here

by Robert Quinn

Newly devised “situational” tests, statistical correlations between reading ability and number of years spent in school, and reading handicaps peculiar to bright and skilled children were discussed before a group of 1,000 national educators attending the University of Chicago’s seventeenth annual reading conference, June 29 through July 2.

The promotion of maximal reading growth among able learners was the theme of this year’s conference, which opened with an address by Newton Edwards, professor of educa Highschoolers Given

College-like Courses

A series of College-like courses in which both pupils and teachers receive credit are presently being sponsored by the University and the Chicago Public School System.

The school and college program for teachers which began June. 28 and will extend through July 30 is designed-to help

educators solve the problems ondary schools and colleges.

Each morning the teachers witness demonstration classes in which the participants are recruited from Chicago high schools. Discussions, laboratories and occasional lectures are scheduled for the afternoons.

The demonstration classes are designed to show educators the ability of average high school students to learn by the discussion method to master subpects once believed to be too advanced for them.

By the institution of college-like methods of instruction and by the elimination of duplication of subject matter in high schools and colleges it is hoped that the transition from high school to college may be made easier for the student.

Students in the demonstration classes receive a full major high - school credit for taking two courses. Under a Ford Foundation grant the program had planned to handle 97 students in seven

of articulation between sec Hutchins Declines To Visit Dorms

Former Chancellor Robert M. Hutchins yesterday declined an invitation to visit Burton Judson dormitories for dinner and discussion. The invitation was made by Kenneth Lewalsky, resident head of Coulter house.

Hutchins, who had been in Chicago this week working with Encyclopedia Britannica, left yesterday for South Bend, Indiana, and will travel to New York today. He said he would see if he could accept the invitation when he returns to the city in August.

tion at UC and the University of South Carolina. He spoke on “Education of the Able Student — Social Significance and Goals.”

The use of “situational” tests to select the brighter children in middle-grade school classes was suggested to the Tuesday general sessions by Newton R. Calhoun, psychologist in the Winnetka schools. These tests are designed to compensate for the failure of IQ and similar intelligence tests to relate directly to the child’s activities in and out of school.

Children Make Scrapbooks

To provide additional information Calhoun suggested some 13 “situational” tests which confront the child with a task in which he his creativity. They range from is creativity. They range from making scrapbooks and poster displays to creative writing and dramatics. Independent research on a topic that interests the child, and map making, even of imaginary countries, is also useful.

One revealing test is the way the child reacts to humor. Making jokes and parodies indicates a responsiveness that bespeaks superiority. By using these situational tests, in addition to others,

UC Registration Figures Given

Total University of Chicago registration at the end of the third week of the summer quarter was

demonstration classes. When 400 students signed up for courses, however, the college undertook the financial responsibility for the establishment of extra class sessions. Next year the college will sponsor all the courses.

2,423, the registrar’s nounced. The division

Social sciences The College Humanities Physical sciences Biological sciences Business school University college Law school SSA school , Graduate FTS

office anfollows:

830

315 299

266

246

115

95

86

83

48

40

the teacher can make it less likely that the able child will miss the opportunities to bring out his potential gifts, he concluded.

Bright Children Skim

Reading problems peculiar to such gifted children were enumerated for the Friday conference session by Alice Brooks Mc Guire, librarian at the University of Texas laboratory school. Mrs. Mc Guire felt that children who are too bright and skilled in reading often skim rapidly over too many books, instead of absorbing what the books can teach.

As a remedy for this reading fault she suggested group discussion and conversations as a means to helping brighter students sift productive ideas out of the vast quantity of material they read.

Mrs. Mc Guire reported that adolescents classify their associates as “wheels, brains, outsiders, mice, and outcasts.” Both “wheels” and “brains” may be able learners, but it is the “wheels” who are the leaders of their classmates, the “brains” being unable to achieve the proper blending of books and life itself.

Mrs. Mc Guire cited as particularly valuable in the social orientation of children those books which stress understanding of society, overcoming shyness, and emotional independence. Others lead their readers to an understanding of other social groups and teach them to appreciate beauty.

Gray Discusses Survey

The lack of connection between the number of years a person spends in school and his reading ability was stressed by William S. Gray, professor emeritus of education at UC. Gray spoke in reference to an intensive study of a group of successful people known to be widely read, whose education varies from less than high school graduation to possession of a Ph.D.

Good readers, the survey found, are distinguished not by the

amount of education they have received but by their curiosity and by their consciousness of a central philosophy which directs their thinking. The good reader witout exception, Gray discovered, is acutely aware of his own interests, reading cautiously and suspending judgments until he reaches a valid conclusion which he can express in terms of his own philosophy.

Discusses Education’s Scope

Gray also stated that the value in a modern educational system lies not alone in its ability to make the student occupationally and professional proficient. “The conditions of our world,” he said, “now require that education be made a positive instrument of social policy. It must be a means ' of equipping the individual with the motivations, the knowledge, the understandings, and the social skills extending all the way from the narrow confines of home and community to the broad expanse of national and international affairs”

Thrifty Buy Turns Costly

About $3,000 to $3,500 damage was done Sunday night by a fire in the psychology building, according to the estimate of W. R. Zellner of Building and Grounds. A used refrigerator purchased by the University about a month age started the blaze, which was discovered by a faculty member at about 10:15 p.m. Sunday.

Most of the damage was to the baseemnt shop in which the fire began, but firemen had to break windows and doors all the way to the tird floor because of the fumes. Nine pieces of equipment had the fire under control in onehalf hour.

Out at Last!

Cap and

Cown Page 2 THE CHICAGO MAROON July 16, 1954

Richard Ward Acting Editor

Reva Brown Business Manager

Playwrights' 'Henry'

Notable Success

Yearbook Traditionally, Professionally Planned

In “Henry IV,” part I, the Playwrights Theater Club has achieved another notable success. Those who believe that Shakespeare’s historical dramas are not eminently playable would be astonished by the gusto and enthusiasm with which the actors attack their roles.

More than once during the performance the liberal swordplay and carefree splashing of sack had the people in the front rows hunched low in their seats. This vigorous conduct somewhat jeopardized the dignity of the play, but any loss was more ♦han redeemed by its dynamic impact on the audience.

The play got off on an exceptionally bad foot. During the first scene Edward Asner as the King was apparently mastered by a long dull speech, the import of which was never clear. He was scarcely aided by the ominous cloud of conspiracy created by the excited whispers, malignant glances, and menacing attitudes of the assembled lords and bishops. Asner’s own exquisite gestures were smothered by this overindulgence of his fellow players.

Play Conies to Life

In the second scene, with the appearance of Robert Kidd as Prince Hal and Lee Henry as Falstaff, the play came to life.' This did not happen immediately, however, since it was first necessary for the audience to adjust to Henry’s loud and aggressive acting. The chief fault of the play lay in this offense by almost every actor save Kidd.

With the possible exception of ♦he bumptious messengers, these performances would be quite acceptable on a large stage, but in an intimate theater they impose an unnecessary burden on the audience. Once this adjustment had been made Henry’s Falstaff was as enjoyable as one could wish.

Delivery Natural

By contrast Kidd’s performance was wholly free of bombast, and his delivery most natural and unaffected. When he spoke one forgot the lines were Shakespeare’s, yet there was no lack of sensitivity in his handling of the poetical

passages.

His role was especially difficult since he had the task of turning a convincing rogue into a convincing hero solely by means of two or three short speeches which on paper sound extremely dubious. In this he was most successful, although in the brilliant scene where he is forgiven by the King, the bulk of the credit must go to Asner.

Piven ‘Magnetic Character’

Another outstanding contribution to the play was the performance of Byrne Piven as Harry Hotspur. A purist might have found him too athletic, particularly for the small stage, and it is to be wondered if Shakespeare contemplated the protracted billing and cooing between him and Lady Percy. On the other hand the former established a magnetic character which greatly pleased the audience, and the second added immeasurably to the play’s charm.

In the facial expression department Piven exhibited the greatest variety and control of anyone in the play. This, by the way, was one of the play’s strongest features, and none of the speeches were received by blank looks culminating in forced laughter or astonishment which is such a great hazard in a Shakespearean production.

No praise is too high for the production itself. The stage was tastefully spare, the costumes rich looking, even from close quarters, and the original music

of Tom O’Horgan was excellent, the College graduates and those Until July 25 the play can be* of the law school was an abortive

seen nightly except Monday at 8:30 in the evening. Admission begins at $1.50 and seats at this price are scarcely ten feet further from the stage than the others.

Koger W. Bowen

Classified Advertisments

Classified advertisements rates are 50 cents for 15 words for students, faculty and employees of the University, 10 cents a word above 15 words.

The rate is 10 cents a word for ail others.

For Rent

Room for man, V2 block from campus. Phone HY 3-1864 before 8 a.m. or after 6:30 p.m., weekends any time.

Rooms for rent, special summer rates. Washing machine, TV, radio, piano, kitchen privileges. 5725 Woodlawn. PL 2-9250 after 6.

Bedroom and living room for man, $60 month. Now to September 25 . 5621 S. University, BU 8-6321.

Large front room in private home, tastefully furnished. PL 2-0596.

Modern 4-room apartment, 1st floor, $75. See Janitor at 5228 S. Woodlawn or call CE 6-1770.

For Sale

New Zenith FM-AM, *£ original price. Being replaced by hi-fi tuner. Jay Schlossberg, PL 2-9718 evenings.

Boxer pups, best in show at Midwest Boxer Club match at three months. MI 3-5046.

First Hundred Days of the New Deal on tape. Twenty-four now available. Moley, MU 4-9117.

Twelve-foot penguin sailboat, complete with trailer. Phone MI 3-5046 or MI 3-0800, Ext. 3718 during day.

NG 7-9071 HYDE PARK THEATRE at 53rd

Starting Friday, July Id Robert Morley

THE FINAL TEST and CURTAIN UP

It isn't "cricket" all the way for here's o double-header of ROBERT MORLEY giving his "crunching, slurping, collor-off performance that amounts to a comic orgy" — TIME MAG. In THE FINAL TEST, Morley is a poet with 0 passion for cricket ... in CURTAIN UP, a temperamental man of the theatre. In both he creates comedy that reaches peaks of wild hilarity.

Starting Friday, July 23

Charles Dickens' PICKWICK PAPERS and 

Gogol's THE OVERCOAT

Starting Friday, July 30

Joseph von Sternberg's latest ANATHAN and his greatest THE BLUE ANGEL with Marlene Dietrich and Emil Jannings

Starting Friday, August 6

THE ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE directed by Luis Bunuel

Please consult Hie doily newspapers for the dote of these showings

Student Rate 50c All Performances

M You Present Your ID Card at the Boxoffice

The “baffling” mystery of campus was finally solved last week when, astonishing almost everybody, including the Cap and Gown staff, the UC yearbook made its long awaited appearance. The forty-seventh annual edition was planned in a traditional manner and administered with a professional touch Quite a few strides have been taken since the amateur efforts or Echo: Midway and the grand conceptions of last year’s book which were never quite attained.

These advances were most 

in evidence in the higher quality of the photography, printing and general technical layout. It is apparent that ihe yearbook staff took a great amount of care in its construction.

Organizations Coverage Lacking

Unfortunately, many student organizations were not given their due coverage. Organizations such as the Documentary Film Group, World University Service and the raft of political organizations which infest this campus were left out entirely. It is difficult to understand why a page should be devoted to the Pre - Med Club while the College Law Society was excluded.

It was quite frustrating to turn to the section on activities and, find it end only a few pages later. We have always been under the impression that there are about two million clubs on campus.

Poll Errors Obvious

Sandwiched between pictures of

effort to picture the college student. This error of the College Poll should be quite obvious to the average student. The Cap and Gown reports with “scientific” accuracy that seven per cent of the

Wanted

First Hundred Days of The New Deal on tape. 24 now available. Moley, MU 4-9117.

WHERE THE U of C MEETS TO EAT

Attention, prefab mothers: Afternoon care for 8-year-old girl desired. Good companion for small children. MI 3-7392 after 6 p.m.

Beginner wants guitar lessons. Phone HY 3-4568.

Riders Wanted

Can vary route from Oak Park through Chicago. Go dally at 8 a.m. Tom Calk-' Ins, EU 6-4977.

To Baltimore. Leaving early morning, August 26. Arrive that evening. Nominal charge. Jay Schlossberg, PL 2-9718 evenings.

Services

Mathematics. Special instruction to fit your mathematical needs. Individual or group sessions. Albert Soglin, ST 2-6727.

Rent an electric refrigerator as low as $4 per month. Also we repair refrigerators CO 4-9231.

Found

Bracelet, Inquire at Information Desk. Administration building.

Personals

Young man, fond of good music, literature, etc., desires meeting people of cultured tastes. FA 4-8100, Rm. 211.

Cap and Gown Now on Sale

“Cap and Gown” the 1954 University of Chicago yearbook, is now on sale. It may be purchased at the University Bookstore, the Reynolds Chib desk or the Student Service Center. Cost is $4.50.

Persons who subscribed to the learbook before publication will receive their copy in the mail.

College men are excessive drinkers/ We are still looking for the girls who have 30 dates a month, but apparently they have flunked out by now.

The College Poll will rank with the Phoenix, which did not rise very far above the ashes of the old Yale Records which the staff pilfered for their ideas. When the Cap and Gown staff ran out of ideas for the Phoenix, they turned to the MAROON and dashed off artful paraphrases of old stories, e g., the article on football.

Streeter’s Article Excellent

One of the highlights of the

International House Movie Program

Assembly Hall, Monday and Thursday Evenings at 8:30 P.M.

Monday, July 19 Kind Hearts and Coronets (English) 45c

Thursday, July 22 Harvey (American) 

Monday, July 26 Song of China (Chinese) 

Thursday, July 29 Fountainhead (American) 

Monday, August 2 Murderers Among Us (German) 

Thursday,August 5 All the King's Men (American) 

Monday, August 9 Torment (Swedish) 

Thursday, August 12 Johnny Belinda (American) 

AVALANCHE OF BARGAINS 50% TO 80% OFF PUBLISHERS’ PRICES!!

Thousands of entertaining, useful Books for every interest. We've Books on every subject — Brand New Books and Odds and Ends; Out-of-Print Books and recent Best Sellers! They're all here for you in the Biggest Book Spree you've ever seen. Mostly 1 and 2 of a title.

Volumes Originally $1.50 to $5.00 Are Now 59- .i,—l-T*!

Books Originally $2.00 to $10.00

Now ^00 Each

Rush in Early for Best Pickings! UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO BOOKSTORE

< 5802 Ellis Avenue

book is Dean Robert E. Streeter’s excellent article on the College program, but most of the other articles on the various schools get bogged down in their own specialized terminology.

In “Around the University,” six pages are devoted to aphotheosizing the local advertisers who contributed to the cost of the book. Events of the past year are given only an equal number of pages— and in most cases this coverage was little more than the reprinting of MAROON headlines.

Kimpton Photo a Delight

But the delight of the yearbook came on the next to the last page where we see Chancellor Kimpton ^th an expression which leads us to wonder if the photographer hadn't asked him: “Did you hear that Hutchins is coming back?” As in the Mc Carthy-Army hearings, the best part of the photograph was cropped, and the campus is unable to see the can of Schlitz in Kimpton's hand.

As a whole the edition is the best we have seen in three years. Perhaps in a few more the yearbook can give its staff enough experience and training to produce at UC one of the better yearbooks of the college year books.

Ellsworth Mc Clenachan

Portraits by LOUISE BARKER Photographer

1457 E. 57th St. BU 8-0876 My M, 1954

THE CHICAGO MAROON

Page I

Students, Scientists Stare At Sun's Strange Show

“Birds began to fly back and forth, twittering and chirping as the sun went under. It didn’t get rornpletely dark, but one or two stars could be seen. Everything was grey.” _ T hus one ora group of about 16 University of Chicago students who went as amateurs to Minnesota to see the total eclipse of the sun described the climax of what he called “something majestic and powerful.”

Traveling to see something of UC students drove to Minnesota for the spectacle. One car arrived on the west shore of White Bear lake, about 10 miles northeast of St. Paul and about five miles from the center of totality, and were surprised when a car of UC students from Argonne arrived at the same spot just a few hours later. Neither group know of the other’s plans.

“We picked the spot because it was for enough from the lights of the city, close to the center of totality, and on the west shore of a Jake, besides being near the main arteries. Maybe they used the same road map, or maybe UC students are all alike,” a student in the first group observed.

Corona Easily Visible

Especially interesting to the group were the effects of the

Schein...

(from Page 1)

Schein, his technician David Haskin, and a research associate, Robert Glasser, report: “An explanation of this event by conventional mechanisms has proven impossible. In view of this the tentative suggestion is offered that the event may be due to annihilation of an antiparticle.”

Theory Formed in 1929

The theory of antiparticle, or antiproton, in various forms, has been considered plausible since 1929, but this is the first time that there has been a possibility of its proof. An antiproton is the counterpart, the opposite of a proton - in other words, negative matter.

It is considered doubtful if many of these particles will ever reach the earth. In the dense atmosphere below one hundred thousand feet it could easily strike a particle in an oxygen or hydrogen atom and disappear long before reaching the surface,

Particle Used in Equations

Schein believes that the largest atom accellerators will not produce them. At present the largest . atom-smashing machines produce particles with energies not much above six billion volts.

The uranium atom in fission exerts energy of two million volts. The particles will be used, how THE DANCE LAUGHING

Summer Quarter

INTERNATIONAL

i < . J t

Saturday Evening, July 31

REYNOLDS CLUB BARBER SHOP

J Dress Semi-Formal *

; “ON THE TENNIS COURTS” *

 

that none of them had ever

eclipse on shadows. Two shadows were visible during the partial eclipse, and light coming through a small hole in a piece of paper formed a crescent. They noticed a rippling effect in the surroundings as the eclipse ended. These strange lighting ripples seemed to decrease in frequency until the sun was out again.

The students reported that the corona was easily visible. “It was very, very interesting. It was certainly worth the trip,” one student remarked.

Use Scanner at Yerkes

Meanwhile, UC astronomers were busy the morning of June 30 studying the eclipse with a new electronic scanner designed at Yerkes, the UC observatory. The device was constructed to cut

through the veil of scattered light in the earth’s atmosphere making

ever, as before, in the theoretical completing of atom equations.

One Report Written

Schein, Haskin and Glasser have prepared one report al retidy on the “Narrow shower of pure protons at one hundred thousand feet.” In this report they state, “A more detailed account of this event will be published later when a more careful discussion of possible causes can be undertaken.”

Mrs. Goodman had examined several of the photographic plates before she discovered something “obviously unusual.” At the time she was “curious and excited.” The scientists had suspicions of the phenomena they found, but not until they spent several more days of patient labor tracing the path of the electrons could they reach any conclusions.

Schein Returning Monday

At present Haskin, Glasser and

Mrs. Goodman are tabulating more data from the photographic plates in the cosmic ray labora.tories in Ryerson hall. Schein returns to campus Monday to formulate further the laws of the event.

The project was undertaken by the institute for nuclear studies

which Schein joined in 1947. It was part of meson research for the Office of Naval Research.

OF THE

STARS

Formal

HOUSE

before, at least three cars

details of the sun’s corona much clearer.

Dr. George A. Van Biesbroeck, emeritus professor of astronomy, Robert Weitbrecht, electronic engineer of Yerkes who developed the scanner, and Anton Gehrels, a graduate student, took the scanner to Haxtun, in northeast Colorado, to make observations.

Harold C. Urey, distinguished service professor in the department of chemistry and the Institute for Nuclear Studies, viewed the sun’s eclipse from 20,000 feet up in a stratocruiser near St. Paul. Urey told newsmen accompanying the g'roup of scientists, “I would trade all our autos, TV, and most other modern innovations for the knowledge we hope to gain about how a star behaves.” Soc i a I Ac t i v i ty Yuletide Spirit Invades UC, Only Snovu hissing for Ball

“Christmas in July,” with all the trimmings except snow, will be celebrated tonight in Ida Noyes patio. Candy canes, a Christmas tree, and other Yuletide items will provide a setting for the Student Union’s all-campus dance, beginning at 9 p.m. and continuing until midnight.

Couples and stags will gather to dance to the music of the Jacks of Rhythm, led by Verne Miller. The orchestra played two engagements on campus in June and was well received, according to a spokesman for SU.

While the dance has been described as “informal” it is expected to be the only semi-dressup dance sponsored by SU this quarter. Admission will be 75 cents per person, including red and green refreshments. Int. House Dance Looking Up

“The Dance of the Laughing Stars” will be held Saturday, July 21, on the International House Tennis court. "Heavenly music” will be provided by Eddie James and his orchestra.

The dance will be opened at 9:30 p.m. by the house council president and midnight fortunes will be distributed with horoscopes.

Residents and non-residents alike will participate in the election

of a summer queen. The dance also features refreshments and flowers for the girls.

Festival to Feature Folk Dances

Ethnic dance groups from Poland, Scotland, Ireland and other nations will highlight the seventeenth annual International House Folk Dance Festival tomorrow evening. '

These dance groups will present dances of their own countries and

then the leader of each group will teach a simple dance for audience participation.

Music will be provided by Martin Kapugi’s Tamburista orchestra which will play hambos, kolos, tangos, czardases, schottisches and other dances for the performers.

Folk-Singer Stracke to Visit UC

The folk-singer Win Stracke who has appeared on many Chicago television programs will give a free benefit performance on campus next Friday for the Veterans Nursery school.

Stracke will sing in Hutchinson Court from 3:15 till 4 p.rrt. In case* of rain the program will be moved inside to Mandel corridor. Donations will be solicited.

Parties, Dances Held by Dorms

A series of parties, dances and outings has highlighted dormitory life this quarter. Wednesday the nurses in Gates threw open their doors from 8 p.m. till midnight to the boys in B-J.

Saturday, dormitory residents gathered in B-J for an evening of dancing and cokes. Music was provided by records.

As a start of the quarter mixer, the boys from Coulter and the girls from Dodd gathered June 30 at the point for a watermelon eat.

4

NOW the new editor of the University of Chicago Magazine published by the alumni association settles down to her new job in her office at 5733 University. (Photo by Stephen Lewellen)

air conditioned for your comfort

Anthenelli

Tells Tasks Of Magazine

“We try to interpret the University to the alumni,” said Felicia Anthenelli, describing her new job as editor of the University of Chicago Magazine.

In most cases, she explained, this means keeping alumni abreast of all the things that happen in the curriculum, in the hospitals, in the classrooms, in the laboratories, in the extra-curriculum, and, not least of all, in the minds of UC’s faculty and student body.

When issues arise, the magazine tries to explain why groups at the University have assumed a ’ certain position or taken a certain action. “The Magazine itself,” she emphasized, “has no editorial position."

Job Not Easy

Her job, Miss Anthenelli explained, was not an easy one. “We must compete with the best of the professional magazines and newspapers for the attention of one of the most literate audiences in the world.”

Miss Anthenelli describes herself as a journalist with a small “j.” She got her only formal journalism training in high school in New York. When her family moved to New Jersey she decided she wanted to do some newspaper work. She went to work for a weekly and later moved on to a daily in Brunswick, New Jei'sey.

Covered Suburbs

Journalism is not an easy field for a woman to enter and then the successful aspirant usually finds herself restricted to only a few beats.

But it was wartime when Miss Anthenelli went to work in Brunswick and male reporters were in short supply. She soon found herself in charge of the suburban beat, complete with police courts, hospitals and high society.

She said referring to World War II, “here was something big happening and I had to get into it. To the great disgust of everybody at Brunswick I joined the Women’s Army Corps.” She does not pretend she spent a tough war, but did public relations while stationed in Miami and Daytona Beach.

Came to UC

When the war ended Miss Anthenelli decided to go to college. New Jersey College for Women was her first choice, but girl’s college rules did not sit well with her. “After all I had just gotten out of the army.”

She then chose UC and Gates hall. She found herself “wild about the college” and as for Gates hall, “they left you alone."

Miss Anthenelli receiver her A.B. in 1949 and went to work for the now defunct Journal of Commerce. When it was bought out by the Wall Street Journal she became a reporter for one of the most respected economic journals in the country. “And I can’t even add,” Miss Anthenelli chuckles.

What does she intend to do with the UC Magazine? “I’m still learning about being an editor,” she says, but added that She would like to see more articles from the humanities division. She said. “Recent issues have been pretty heavily weighted on the part of the sciences.”

Poole Named

To Trustees

George A. Poole, Jr., president of Poole Brothers, Inc., has been elected a member of the University’s Board of Trustees, Edward L. Ryerson, the board’s chairman announced Tuesday.

Poole is the fourteenth former student to become a member of the present board.

WANTED

IBM operator, some experience, for public opinion research work — hours con.be arranged. National Opinion Research Center, 5711 Woodlawn, FA 4-7354, Fred Meir. THE CHICAGO MAROON

July 16, 1954

Education Buzzes with Activity

Teachers Turn Students

During Summer Quarter

by Larry Littlejohn

Unlike the College and most of the other departments of the University, the department of education buzzes with activity during the summer. In addition to the special workshops and conferences, many teachers turn student and take summer courses in the regular degree program. The present enrollment is approximately 260 — slightly larger than normal

— and represents students from all over the world.

The department is offering •everal workshops for teachers and school administrators this summer. A workshop in economics, which began June 21, will end July 30. This workshop is designed to give elementary school teachers a basic understanding of the nation’s economic institutions.

In conjunction with the seventeenth annual conference on reading (see story on page 1) the department is offering a workshop in reading from June 28 through July 23. The purpose of this workshop is to help teachers with the reading problems of their students.

The workshop staff includes personnel from Wayne and Cornell universities as well as UC. For students who have reading problems or wish to improve their reading habits the education department also sponsors a reading clinic on campus.

From July 19 to 23 a conference

on research in educational administration will be an activity of the department under the sponsorship of the Midwest Administration Center. The conference will place its emphasis on the implication of research for personnel administration, public relations in education and the use of outside resources by pupils.

The department of religion and public education of the National Council of the Churches of Christ is joining with the department in sponsoring a workshop of home, church and school relations in the religious education of youth. The conference, which will be held from July 26 to August 13, is for teachers, school administrators, clergymen, religious educational leaders and leaders of parent groups.

100 Attend Workshops

Approximately 100 teachers are attending present workshops, and even more are expected to attend those scheduled later in the summer, swelling the department of education’s enrollment even more.

Tell Activity Of Teachers

Iowa Schoolteachers Mrs. Nina Cran (left) and Mrs. Velina Wigans take in the sun on the porch behind Burton-Judson while they discuss some of the course material in their economics workshop program.

(Photo by Robert Usher)

Travel-Agents Get

World Council Delegates To Preach at Rockefeller

Courses at U-College

Fred Week of the Grace Line steamship company announced that University college will again offer a three quarter seminar for travel agents this year. The course is designed to

In August several guest preachers attending the Assembly of the World Council of Churches in Evanston will deliver the Rockefeller Chapel sermons.

On August 1 the preacher will be Professor G. Baez-Comargo, secretary of the committee on Christian literature in

train the agents of the American Travel Society, but may be opened to the general public this fall.

The seminar series consists of weekly lectures on topics including: “What is a travel agent?”; “What a travel gent sells”; “What are the important vacation spots”

and “The cultural aspects of the countries in which people travel.”

The course, started two years ago, offers no degree, and cannot be counted as credit toward a UC degree. It is designed to offer specialized training for persons entering travel service work.

Latin America, Mexico City, necke, director of the Berlin Missionary school in the East Zone of Berlin will speak on August 8.

On August 15 the preacher will be the Reverend Josef Hromadka, dean of the John Hus Theological Faculty at Prague; the Very Reverend John Baillie, principal of New College in Edinburgh, Scot The Reverend Gerhard Bren(fan&if &wt&4 eu&ite ck fayf

land will preach on August

Guest Carillonneur To Perform Sunday

Arthur Lynds Bigelow, 1

22.

bellmaster at Princeton University, will give a special carillon recital Sunday at Rockefeller Chapel at 12:15 p.m.

Bigelow', considered one of the finest bell makers in the world, will play works of Handel, Schubert, Brahms, Denyn, Flemish folk songs and will conclude the concert with his own Fantasia for Carillon.

Wednesday and next Sunday, the chapel carillonneur, James R. Lawson will play Mozart compositions. On Sunday, July 25, he will play the first performance of “The University of Chicago Suite,” a composition by Kemiel Lefevere, carillonneur of Riverside Church in New York. The work is dedicated to Lawson.

On August 18, the carillon concert will be played by Wendell Wescott, carillonneur of Michigan State College. These concerts are part of the chapel’s twenty-fifth anniversary celebration.

Nichols, Eby, Baez Conclude Lectures

Three lectures remain in the series sponsored by Rockefeller Chapel and the Inter-Church Council on the World Council of Churches.

On Tuesday James H. Nichols of the federated theological school faculty will discuss “The Social and Ethical Program of a Responsible Church in the World Perspective.” The following week Kermit Eby of the social sciences division will give a criticism of the world council, “Evanston Does Not Excite Me.”

On August 3, G. Baez-Comargo, a delegate to the council from Mexico will discuss the “Place of Latin America in the Ecumenical Movement.”

July 16

All campus C-dance at Ida Noyes Patio at 9 p.m.

Friday Frolic, International House, 9 p.m.

The movie, “My Man Godfrey” at

Social Sciences, 7:15 and 9:30

July 22

A lecture on Theology and

Art

p.m.

July 18

At Rockefeller Chapel the Reverend Amos N. Wilder will give a sermon on “Behold the Man” during the University’s religious services that begin at 11 a.m.

July 20

At Ida Noyes a lecture by James H. Nichols on “The Social and Ethical Program of a Responsible Church in the World Perspective” 7:30 p.m.

Today will be presented at 7:30 at Chapel House which is 5810 Woodlawn. The Reverend Joha B. Thompson will give the lecture and he will be aided by illustrations by Giotto, Titian, and Rembrandt.

Louis Gottschalk will speak to the Graduate History club on "Two Adventures in Historiography; an interview with Trotsky; and writing a history for UNESCO. The talk will be given at Ida Noyes in the East Lounge, 8 p.m.

At Workshop

Many school teachers are attracted to the University of Chicago for advanced study during the summer quarter by the myriad of workshops, conferences and courses. Two of these are Mrs. Velma Wigans and Mrs. Nina Cran who are taking part in the economics workshop offered by the department of education.

During nine months of the year they teach the intermediate grades in the Webster County elementary schools in Fort Dodge, Iowa, but this summer they were sent by the school system there to spend July at the workshop so that they could “take back economic techniques to Iowa,” as Mrs. Cran described their venture.

Enjoys Workshop Courses

When they return to Fort Dodge they will join a school committee there “to work out a course of study” in economics. Mrs. Wigans enjoys her courses in the workshop. When asked if she learned anything new there, she replied, “Yes, it’s given me some very good economic attitudes and concepts.”

When the class work is ended, the two women take time out to tour the city. This is their first visit to Chicago and like most tourists they have wasted no time in visiting some of the famous sights in the city. They have journeyed to Brookfield zoo and found themselves caught in the hectic activity of “Loop” pedestrians when they visited the downtown stores.

They Like B-J Food

When they first arrived at the University .they overheard . two students discussing politics and were dismayed to find “such Communistic attitudes” among the students, but their stay at Burton Judson has convinced them that most UC students are normal politically and they have attended the picnics and open houses with the rest of the summer residents.

Contrary to the attitude of most dormitory residents, however, they think that B-J food is wonderful.” “I never ate so much back home,” Mfs, Wigans said.

In the evenihgs the women can be seen sitting in the courts waiting for an evening breeze before they retire for the night. They explained that the climate Is not so humid back in Iowa. And Mrs. Wigans qdded, “My only complaint is the weather.”

SPEND YOUR SUMMER VACATION AT

UNIVERSITY TAP AND LIQUOR

Eye Examinations

Visual Training

Dr. Kurt Rosenbaum

optometrist

1132 E. 55th Street

HYde Park 3-8372

ACASA Book Store

SCHOLARLY USED BOOKS MODERN GREETING CARDS EXPERT TYPEWRITER SERVICE

1117 E. 55th St

DY 3-9651

1)33 E. 55th

Phone Midway 3-0524

SOIGNE#

Steaks at

Their Best

* exquisite in detail, carefully finished and arranged

Qffierh [louse AIR-CONDITIONED

GOOD food ucia M^serfttft^^

GESER.Y^Tro Vs: hyoepark 5-4500

CAP & GOWN IS HERE

$4S0 at the Bookstore

or Reynolds Club