Alumni plan reunion activities UC team defeated

Twenty-two campus-wide tours, a dinner at the Quadrangle Club, and an all-student variety program will highlight the alumni open house program scheduled for the weekend of February 27. 'This program is a continuation of a series of annual mid-year reunions sponsored by the Alumni Association and co-ordinated by Howard Mort, the*association’s executive secretary. 

The activities are open to all Chicago alumni; this year a record crowd of one thousand participants is anticipated, an alumni spokesman said.

Plan calls for the first phase of the program, beginning at 3:45 p.m., Saturday, to feature an allcampus open house during which 22 tours will visit special departments to examine new facilities and learn of the progress of the departments during the past year.

After dinner and a visit to the student art exhibit in the Reynold’s club, alumni will see a new all-student variety program.

University Theater will present

a scene from “Playboy of the Western World,” the glee club is also scheduled to present a medley of songs. Comedy and acrobatic will be provided by Acrotheatre and their pint-sized counterparts. “Miniature Acrotheatre.”

To accommodate the large number of participants, four of the 22 tours are being given twice, once at 1:45 p.m. and again at the later time. The tours to be given twice are: a tour of the meteorology department with a demonstration of how air currents are traced and weather forecast a week in advance; a description by Pinhaus

Delougaz, curator of the Oriental Institute of his experiences as field director of the first American expedition to Israel; an election-year discussion of methodology in poll-taking and opinion evaluation by Clyde Hart, director of the National Opinion Research Center; and an exhibition of the Reading Clinic.

Harold Urey will answer the question “When was the earth formed and what was its source?” in a talk on “The Origin of the Earth.” Following the talk visitors to the atom science buildings will inspect the cyclotron and betatron.

on NBC quiz show

On the College Quiz Bowl Washington and Lee University defeated a team of UC students by a score of 250-200. The program was recorded last night in Rosenwald 2 and will be broadcast Sunday at 5 p.m. over NBC radio stations (In Chicago, WMAQ-670).

The UC members, Sylvia Boyd, Stan Fox, Leonard Freid University of Chicago, February 26, 1954

Soc 2 rescheduled

The Social Sciences 2 quarterly examination has been rescheduled to 1 -2:30 p.m. in Judd 126 on Wednesday. March 17, the College dean's office announced.

There was a typographical er MAROON loses social life;

Student Code was breached

The MAROON has been forbidden to hold social events for the next ten weeks by William Birenbaum, director of Student Activities. This action was taken because the MAROON held

man and Joel Kupperman will each receive a Longine wristwatch for their participation on the program.

Washnigton and Lee receives 500 dollars to be spent by the school for winning the contest. The southern university now enters its third week of competition on the program. Having defeated the girls from Smith last week, Caylon asks court's view on SC by-law

“A vacancy shall be filled by a member of the same party as the one who resigned to create the vacancy.” •

This section of the Student Government By-Laws is being contested by Aubrey Galyon, ISL majority leader.

Galyon is exercising the right of any student to question the constitutionality of an SG law.

Student Faculty Administration Court will announce its decision on this controversial issue today.

The argument was brought before the Court last Friday. SRP

they face a team of Princeton boys next Sunday.

The members of the Chicago team were chosen after a series of tests administered by Student Government and the office of the Director Activities.The tests were given to determine then “general knowledge in the fields of political science, history, literature, geography, music, are, sports and current events,” according to Clive Gray, Student Government president.

Israeli official

to talk here

a staff party the night of the party was not registered with the Student Activities office.

Birenbaum stated in a memorandum to Eli Stein, chairman of the committee on recognized student organizations (CORSO), that the appearance of an advertisement in the February 19 MAROON for the staff party and the occurrence of the event violated certain provisions of the Student Code and Regulations.

These provisions provide that a registered student organization may not have an activity at the same time as an all-campus activity (such as Wash Prom); and it states that all parties of these organizations and a list of chaperones must be registered and approved by the Student Activities office.

Birenbaum made charges

Action against the MAROON was initiated by the Student Activities office when Birenbaum requested that CORSO of Student Government take disciplinary action against the MAROON. CORSO met last Tuesday and recommended that the student activities office forbid the MAROON to hold social events through the sixth Saturday of the spring quarter. Birenbaum adopted and imposed this recommendation. Under the Code, the MAROON may appeal this action to the Student Faculty - Administration (SFA) Court.

The MAROON may be further penalized if Student Government votes to indict the paper before before the SFA court. So far no action has been taken by SG.

Editor of the MAROON, Arthur

Wash Prom and because the

Brown, stated: “It seems to me that the sections of the Code in question have two purposes: first, to prevent conflict in time among student activities, and second, to keep social events from becoming too ‘wild.’ The MAROON party was a closed staff party and was not meant to compete with the Wash Prom. Hard liquor was not served. Therefore, I do not feel that we violated the spirit of the Code.”

Brown continued: “However, it is obvious that legally we are guilty of violating the Code, as charged by the Student Activities office. Therefore, we accept any

ror in the quarterlies, nation will

listing for the English The English B exambe held on Wednesday,

March 17, at 10 - 12 । p.m. in the following rooms: sec. aa) Cobb 312 sec. ac) Cobb 103 sec. ba) Cobb 101 sec. be) Cobb 416 sec. ca) Cobb 102 sec. ga) Cobb 104 secs. ab. bb. cb, da, gb) Judd 126

members Huey Thurschwell Paul Breslow defended the law.

Members of the court

and byare

George Kaufmann' chief justice, Anton De Porte, Dan Feldman, Albert Sciaky, Donald Meiklejohn, chairman of social science 3, Malcolm Sharp, professor of law, and Robert C. Wolner, assistant dean of students.

“Peace in the Near East** will be the topic of Abba Eban, ambassador of Israel to the United States and chief Israeli delegate to the UN, in an address Monady, March 8, at 8 p.m. in Judd 126. The talk is sponsored by the Political Science Association.

Eban, who has been actively engaged in Israel’s politics for twelve years, became his country’s Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary to the United States in 1950. Since his appointment, he has been engaged in strengthening the relationships between the United States and Israel. He has also been active in settling problems about German reparations. Previously, he was a representative of Israel in that state’s fight for independence and later in her fight for admission to the UN.

Prom queen describes reactions

by Elaine Pomper

With the crowning of Miss Janice Porter as queen, the University of Chicago queen contest effected its finale at the Washington Promenade last Saturday night. The new queen was chosen over four other final contestants, who subsequently became her court..

Miss Porter is completing her second year in the College and is a graduate of the University High school. Although just sixteen, she is fairly certain in what field she will essentially concentrate for her future career. Following two more years in the College, she intends to

Int. House sets

new movie price

Reduction in admission and change in location are include# in changes in the International House movie schedule. Beginning Monday, February 22, Monday night movies will be shown in the East Lounge instead of the Assembly Hall, Admission will be lowered to 35 cents.

reasonable penalty imposed that office without appealing the SFA court.”

by to

enter the social sciences division for research work in a

were difficult to recall for Miss

branch of that department. Porter, except that “I trembled Considered in her plans is the pos- from head to foot.” The poised,

from head to foot.” The poised,

CORSO accuses SU of illegal publicity display

Student Union has been accused of illegally distributing promotional material for the Washington Promenade. The accusation was made at the Committee on Recognized Student Activities (CORSO) meeting last Tuesday. Action by CORSO was defered until its next meeting.

The regulations which SU may have violated are similar to those on which SRP was indicted and convicted by SG and the Student Faculty Administration Court. Washington Promenade advertisements were placed on the tables of the Commons and the Coffee Shop. The regulations provide that “recognized student organizations may post materials on designated bulletin boards provided that they conform to the Regulations ” (Part One, II-B, 1-a).

.When asked about the posters, William Birenbaum, director of student activities, stated: “The materials in question were displayed as a result of special arrangements between this office and Residence Halls and Commons. The Wash Prom is an official University event, largely financed by and partially planned by this office. You may consider these signs the notices of an official agent of the University, namely, this office.”

sibility of culminating her studies .five foot, seven inch brunette dein a teaching career.

Speaking of the University’s present program of education Miss Porter said, “Two years of study at UC have convinced me that a liberal arts education is necessary for a fuller comprehension and appreciation of specialized material.”

Campus provides opportunity

On the subject of UC campus activities,. “This campus provides the opportunity to meet people with diverse backgrounds and varying interests,” she observed. Revealing her own “varying interests,” Miss Porter’s extra-curricular enterprises run the gamut of diversity from the more serious organizations. Student Forum, World University Service, and Student Union, for example, to such athletic groups, as Acrotheatre and Pep Club.

When asked what importance she thought the Miss UC Contest had in the role of a university, particularly UC, and the effect of such a contest on student interest, Miss Porter stated that students “place varying emphasis on different facets of the University community for part of the campus the UC Queen Contest was important—it certainly was for me.”

Recollection of naming

Recollections of the moment her name was pronounced as Queen

scribed her present feelings as “awfully happy—terribly excited.”

In response to a query on how she felt now that all the celebration and clamor were over, Miss Porter replied, “I only hope that I actually deserved the h o n o i which has been bestowed on me."

Dean of students Robert M. Strosier crowns Janice Porter, Miu UC, at the Washington Promenade, THE CHICAGO MAROON

February 26, 1954

Page 2

 

Advance Registration for the Spring Quarter 1954

Law school

Social Sciences

March 

Graduate library school

Social service administration

March School

Federated Theological schools

Physical sciences

March sciences

Medical school

College students already registered for the spring quarter will receive their class tickets through the mail by March 8. Students wishing to make changes in their registrations must make appointments with their advisers during the registration period, March 8 to 19.

The student begins his registration in the office of the appropriate dean of students. The last day to pay tuition without a late-payment fee will be Tuesday, March 30.

SQ amends election bydaws

Two amendments to the by-laws of student government, pertaining to elections, were passed at the student government meeting Tuesday night.

The first of the two proposed amendments contained two parts, only one of which was passed. This part, passed unanimously as a by-law of student government, established the times of both the SG and the NS A elections to be the Thursday and Friday of the fourth week of the autumn and spring quarters, respectively. It also provided that the announcements of elections, filing 

cedures, rules defining valid ballots, and other pertinent information shall be made at least one week prior to the deadline for filbog petitions and shall be prominently displayed on campus and through an all-campus newspaper. No PR vote fails

The second part of the bill, containing provisions which are in<ompatible with PR, received a Vote of 20-12, but not the necestary two-thirds vote. A motion Was made by Paul Breslow (SRP), minority floor leader, to consider these two parts separately, since he pointed out that the second part of the bill would permanently eliminate the possibility of proportional representation in coming elections. He continued that it was undemocratic to pass a bylaw closing the door to PR without first submitting the question to the campus in the form of a referendum.

Since the vote of a member of the assembly on this question might be determined by whether or not he favored PR, Clive Gray, president of student government, ruled that the discussion on the bill could concern itself with the merits of PR.

Galyon: “PR aids machines'*

Aubrey Galyon (ISL) stated that the common opinion is that with PR, the campus will be better represented. “However,” he said, “if we should operate under

PR, parties will not run their best candidates, but will rely simply on their platforms and machines. A person might be prominent in a political party but still disliked by the campus. We are going further and further towards creating a stratified political system.”

Lichtenstein (SRP) declared that the present system, whereby a political party can receive forty per cent of the vote and still have only one-third of the seats in the government, is not democratic.

“PR destroys brood parties"

PR tends to encourage splinter groups to run, asserted Marlon Smith (ISL). It tends to destroy a broad-based political party. “It is my opinion that a political party with a broad base is more democratic. You have more discipline; fights are worked out within the party rather than on the government floor.”

Even though a minority group only gets ten per cent of the votes, it gets ten per cent of the seats under PR, stated Frank Kirk (SRP). “This is as it should be. Under the present system such a group has no voice as their

Big Rush On For New Arrows As Color "Clicks” with Coeds

Critic O’Faolain to discuss heroes at Mandel talk

Sean O’Faolain, Irish novelist, biographer, and critic, will deliver the 189th William Vaughn Moody Lecture on Tuesday. O’Faolain will speak on “Six Novelists in Search of a Hero” in Mandel Hall at 8:30 p.m.

O’Faolain is the author of “A Nest of Simple Folk,” “A Purse of Coppers,” “Wolfe Tone,” “The Irish,” “Summer in Italy,” and other books.

Admission is without ticket and without charge.

votes are usually spread out among several candidates. Therefore a system of PR tends to perpetuate minority groups and gives them the right to voice their opinions.”

The other amendment that passed concerned the jurisdiction of the court in election disputes. It provided that during the week of a general election the SFA Court shall have jurisdiction in the interpretation and enforcement of election laws. Any candidate, any electoral group, or party may appeal for a court order. An injunction may be issued by a panel of two of the justices, previously selected by the court. Any party to the dispute may ask the full court to review the action. The court must meet within two days after the appeal has been filed.

Portraits by

LOUISE BARKER Photographer

1457 E. 57th St. BU 8-0876

Education chairman leaves University

Maurice F. Seay, professor and chairman of the department of education, has announced his resignation and his departure from the University. Seay is leaving to assume the position of director of education of the Kellogg Foundation.

In an interview with the MAROON Seay stated, "I was

faced with a choice between two very desirable alternatives, accepting the offer of this position or remaining here. Only after considerable thought did I decide that the Kellogg position Poet Schwartz to teach at UC

Delmore Schwartz, writer and critic, is to be a visiting teacher at the University of Chicago during the Spring Quarter, the department of English has announced: Schwartz is to teach two courses, one in advanced creative writing and the other in modern American poetry (1914-1940).

Schwartz is an associate editor of the Partisan Review and has contributed to that magazine and the The Saturday Review, The Kenyon Review’, Poetry, The Sewanee Review, The Nation, The New Republic and Commentary. His latest books are Genesis (1943), a story in verse and prose; The World Is a Wedding (1948), a collection of short stories; and Vaudeville for a Princess (1950), a collection of poems. Two other books published in 1938 and 1941 contain fiction, poetry and dramas. Schwartz taught at Harvard University from 1940 to 1952 and last year taught at Princeton.

’ ।

j ALEXANDER'S THE GREAT

; PLACE TO EAT OFF CAMPUS ’

; OPEN DAY AND NIGHT !

; YOUR HOSTS WILL BE ’

GEORGE KYROS PETE HRISTAKOS ;

• 1137 - 39 East 63rd Street [

* 

offered more opportunities to me.”

Seay’s duties with the Kellogg Foundation will consist of making major policies with respect to raising funds for educational programs.

“I’m not leaving,” Seay continued, “because of any lack of confidence in the University. In fact, my confidence in it now is greater than what it was when I came here three and a half years ago. I’ve come to know the University and its programs better. I think the program here has been changed in response to new situations, and I fully approve of these changes.”

Seay will leave the University sometime in May.

Lohman to speak on PW's, Korea

Recently returned from Korea, Joseph Lohman, lecturer in sociology and Democratic candidate for sheriff, will talk on his experiences in the Far East as head of the UN “explanations” team.

This will be his first lecture to an all campus gathering since his return. Lohman will be sponsored by the Young Democrats on Monday in Soc. Sci 122 at 8 p.m. Admission will be free and all students and faculty are invited.

Students — Faculty the Socialist Party is holding an organizational meeting at 5721 S. Kenwood, March 1, 8 p.m.

Members - Ex-members - Friends

Survey shows that gals favor men wearing Arrow Shirts in stripes, checks and solids

Eye Examinations Visual Training

Dr. Kurt Rosenbaum

optometrist

1132 E. 55th Street HYde Park 3-8372

Mc Carthyism, what it is— and how to fight it

Speaker Murry Weiss staff writer for "The Militant" on national tour

Socialist Workers Nall

777 W. Adams

Sat., March 6 8:30 p.m.

features the “smoothest line” in town...Arrow Shirts in checks, • stripes, solid colors

*4.50 up

Collegians throughout the country are showing their colors — in new check, plaid, solid tone Arrow shirts. Reported favorites for their dashing good taste, they have the latest collar styles.

AJUIOW

 

TRADE ® MARK

— SHIRTS * TIES * UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTSWEAR Try a line that'll wow your women—our line of colorful, new Arrow Shirts. They're the "laskword" In style—in trim, good taste. And we have a handsome selection in checks, plaids, solid colors. See how they pep up your wardrobe — and your appearance, too — in a wide range of the world's smartest collar styles. Tapered to fit your torso in fine "Sanforized"® fabrics that won't shrink more than 1%. Come, look over our collection of Arrows today.

—Chicago - Evanstoe - Oak Perk - Gary - Joliet - Alton— February 26, 1954

FHE CHICAGO MAROON

Wash Prom

Pag# 3

weekend 'success'

Dance called ‘UC’s best’ by Student Union prexy

“Bartlett Gymnasium is not the ballroom of the Palmer House, but it was the scene of UC’s most successful dance in recent years,” said Bruce Larkin, president of Student Union. “While the cost of the band was much greater than any other since Tex Beneke played for us in 1948,” he continued, “the favorable reaction of those who attended seemed to justify the expense.”

Dean Stroz ter and Miss UC of 1954, Jan Porter, Mrs. Strozier; Al Gruber, chairman of the Wash Prom after the coronation ceremony Saturday night, leading committee; Helen Fish; Harry Oleynick; and Jami# the grand march of the 1954 Washington Promenade. Redmond, a queen contest finalist.

t ore; Chris Smith;

Larkin’s enthusiasm was ec out as high points of Wash Prom Weekend the Bartlett Gym decorations, UT’s production of “Playboy of the Western World,” and breakfast in candlelit Commons.

“A peachy idea,” said Lang Collins of Green House on the subject of Bartlett’s use as ballroom. “It was convenient,” she added, “and it was large enough that there was space to dance without jostling your neighbor.”

Paula Sansone, another Green resident, also liked the choice of Bartlett as the Prom’s scene. She thought though that dress was not as formal as a hotel ballroom might have produced.

Miss Ferrar pleased

Chairman of the Wash Prom Queen Contest committee, Betty Ferrar, was Also pleased with the dance’s outcome and its large attendance. She said that 341 tickets were sold—an increase of 160 over last year’s showing. The opinion of many students is that this was due to the fame of

Ta the music of Woody Herman's band, Queen Jan Porter and her partner, Chris Smith, dance at Wash Prom, held in Bartlett Gym last Saturday.

Clee Club to present song at two concerts this week

The University Glee Club is scheduled for two appearances within this week. The first will find the club sharing Mandel Hall stage with Acrotheater and Collegium Musicum at the annual alumni show tomorrow evening. The second will be a winter quarter concert to be presented in Graham Taylor Chapel next Friday at 8:30 p.m.

Nelson’s execution. Approximately 50 persons were actively engaged in working for the success of the Washington Promenade,

Woody Herman’s band, but Lar- including Don Fisher, Burton Judson council head, and An Shih

kin said, ‘‘Whether we shall in the future hire so well known a band is a question which future Student Unions will have to answer. If campus reaction is any indication, I would step would be

Heads named

Wash Prom

say that such a well advised.” *

committee heads

were: Bill Rosenthal, decoration chairman; Betty Ferrar, contest chairman; Chuck Curtis, finance chairman; Ray Wilkerson, sales chairman; Gil Dahlberg, programming chairman; and Noel Perlman and Lou Schaeffer, publicity chairmen. The ballroom decorations were due to Walter Jesky’s planning and Ray and Perdita

। /GOJ WITH Yfdp <\

\no MEET THE PEOPLE

Hawaii

Cheng, Interdorm council head.

During ticket sales, many sectors of the university were besieged; International House, divisional students, faculty and alumni received special attention. Harold Donohue, editor of the alumni magazines, aided the cause by printing stories on the event in both Tower Topics and the University of Chicago magazine.

'Excited students'

Director of Student Activities, William Birenbaum, said “There have been few events that have excited students as much as the Washington Promenade did. It was a success because everyone had a good time.” Birenbaum stated that the Wash Prom was “financially satisfactory,” and

that he favors “having on campus an event of this scope again.”

In gratitude to those who took part in the preparations for the Prom, Bruce Larkin asked that the following message be published to the campus: “The Union wishes to thank the many people who worked on the Prom. It is a fact—and not merely an overworked expression—to say that the Prom would not have been possible without their help.”

For students wishing to attend the alumni affair there are a few tickets available from Glee Club members. Admission to the Graham Taylor Chapel concert will be without ticket and without charge.

The concert program features Randall Thompson’s “The Peaceable Kingdom,” a sequence of sacred choruses for unaccompanied mixed voices. The text is from the prophecy of Isaiah.

Also to be performed is Thompson’s “Alleluia.” This composition was written at the request of the late Serge Koussevitsky for the opening exercises of the Berkshire Music Center. This first performance was by the student body of the Center under the direction of

G. Wallace Woodworth on July 8, 1940.

The motet “Hail Gladdening Light” by another contemporary composer, Canada’s Healy Willan, will also be presented. Dr. Willan is organist and choirmaster of St. Mary Magdalene Church in Toronto.

Two Negro spirituals “Roll, Jordan, Roll” and “Rock-a My Soul” complete the program.

Thompson, born in New York in 1899, is a graduate of Harvard University and one of few American composers to have held both the Prix de Rome and the Guggenheim Foundation Fellowship. He is currently Professor of Music at Harvard.

4th ANNUAL GIRL'S STUDY YOURI

inducted. $493

— = , ,.uc. agenr.

STOP TOURS, Berkeley, Calif.

RESTRING WITH ^

STANDS OUT in play

• Harder Smashes e Better Cut and Spin

STANDS UP In your rackot • Moisture Immune e Lasting Liveliness

COSTS LESS than gut

APPROX. STRINGING COSTi Pro-Fected Braid....$6.00 MHH-Ply Braid.$5.00

At tnnh shops and sporting goods stores.

ASHAWAY BRAIDED RACKET STRING Choice of The Champions

Student robbed

A UC student was robbed on campus last Wednesday night. The student, who has asked that his name be withheld, had his watch and eight dollars taken from him by three armed boys ranging in age from about fourteen to eighteen. Nothing more is known by the police about the identity or whereabouts of the assailants.

Marooned?

There's a raft of fun at

Ml 3-0524

1131-33 E. 55th

featuring

Ballentine Ale and Beer

mccarthyism 1954:

‘Half Price’ world trip offered by American Youth Hostels

“See twice the country at half the price.” With this phrase the American Youtl THostels, Inc., announces its 1954 summer program of trips throughout the world.

Travel in the various locales is usually by foot or bike. All traveling is done in co-educational groups of ten.

Information and descriptive folders will be available at a

meeting to be held Wednesday, 7:30 at Ida Noyes Hall.

Eighteen trips are scheduled for this coming summer. Trips to Europe, lasting 10 or 11 weeks including transportation time, will be conducted in England,. France, western, northern, southern, southwest, and central Europe. Sailings are from New York, Boston, and Montreal. The cost varies from $575 to $686.

Those interested in trips within the Americas are offered a great variety, ranging from a four week trip to New England for $100 to a seven week tour of Hawaii by air at a cost of $590. In between, in cost, time, and distance, are tours to Quebec, Nova Scotia, New England, the Canadian Rockies, Alaska and the Yukon, and Mexico.

If time is short and the “Europe Urge” strong, several trips are offered as a solution: four weeks; to the British Isles, $700; France and the low countries, $745; and the Rhine Valley, $760.

The American Citizen Talks Back

Hear a free discussion on civil liberties in the United States by

Harvey O'Connor

Writer, labor publicist who defied the Mc Carthy Senate investigating committee. He is author of "Mellon's Millions," "The Astors," "The Guggenheims," and other books.

Sunday, Feb. 28

I. F. Stone

Earl B. Dickerson

Widely known newspaper reporter and columnist whose courageous reporting of the Washington scene has won national acclaim. He now publishes the I. F. Stone Weekly Newsletter.

Pominent local attorney, former aiderman and leader in civic and national affairs. He is president of the National Lawyer's Guild and a national board member of the NAACP.

8:30 p.m., K.A.M. Temple, 50th & Drexel

CHICAGO COMMITTEE FOR ACADEMIC AND PROFESSIONAL FREEDOM

UC Red Cross chapter to open annual fund drive

The University of Chicago American Red Cross chapter has announced the beginning of its annual fund raising drive in conjunction with the national campaign. Norman Strominger, a representative of the UC chapter said that the campus drive will be on between March 1 and 5.

In its bulletins for the 1954 drive, entitled “Do unto others ...” and “Facts for 1954,” the Red Cross has outlined the purposes of its drive. Among these objectives are services to the Armed Forces and veterans, the blood program, disaster, safety, and nursing services, and the Junior Red Cross and International Relations.

The Red Cross appeal for this year has set a minimum goal of $3,450,000 for this area. In setting aside the month of March, President Eisenhower has said: “We find the Red Cross on duty everywhere always true to their belief that people, and only people, matter ...”

MONTHLY REVIEW ASSOCIATES invite you to hear Leo Huberman on Behind Hie Labor Problem Today Tonight, Fob. 26 — 8:30 p.m.

Woodrow Wilson Room

116 S. Michigan

Student Rate 75# Pag* 4

THE CHICAGO MAROON

February 26, 1954

Issued once weekly by the publisher. The Chicago Maroon, at the publication office, 5706 South University Avenue, Chicago 37, Illinois. Telephones: Editorial Office, Midway 3-0800, Ext. 1010; Business and Advertising Offices, Midway 3-0800, Ext. 1009. Distributed free of charge, and subscriptions by moil, $3 per year. Business Office hours: I to 5 p.m,, Monday through Friday.

Arthur Brown Richard E. Ward

editor-in-chief managing editor

News editors: Naomi Birnbaum, Allen Janger

News Feature editor: Nellie Stoneman

Feature editor: Daniel Queen

Sports editor: Paul A. Hoffman

Copy editor: Shirley Long

Advertising manager: Reva Brown

Production manager: Joanna Herlihy

Cartoonist: Ray Nelson

Copy staff: Jerry Ex, Pam Brown

Photographers: Joe Wolf, Richard Kluckholn

From the MAROON Constitution, Article VI: To become effective as voicing the opinion of the Chicago MAROON editorials must receive a two thirds majority of the affirmative and negative votes cast at the meeting considering them. Editorials receiving a simple majority may be printed over the names of those approving, at the discretion of the author.

Code must be revised

Last Saturday the MAROON received a copy of the following letter:,

“On page 11 of the Feb. 19, 1954, MAROON, an advertisement appeared reading: ‘MAROON staff party, Saturday, February 20, 9 p.m., 5216% Drexel. Staff members only.’

“The appearance of this announcement and/or the occurrence of this event violates Part I, IV, Paragraphs c, h, g, and 1 of the Code, and Part II, Regulations B, I, and J.

“Under Article Two, Section Six of the Statute, I recommend that the Assembly take the appropriate disciplinary action against the MAROON. Within the provisions of the same section of the Statute, it is my recommendation that the MAROON be prohibited from sponsoring further social activities until further notice. I will await the advice of your Committee before taking this step.

(signed) W. Birenbaum”

In other words, William Birenbaum jntends to restrict the MAROON under provisions which have been rarely enforced. Why? Because we scheduled a party for staff members only on the night of the Wash Prom and printed an announcement of the party. We did this knowing full well that only three members of our staff were attending the Prom and that we would be offering it no conceivable competition. We can only interpret Birenbaum’s charges as an extension ad absurdum of the arbitrary and undemocratic use of the Code that has been developing on the part of the Administration.

Up to the past few months and since the Student Code and Bill of Rights was adopted, the Administration has disregarded its trivial provisions and relaxed the unduly restrictive ones. The Code was approached in a consistently liberal manner—for the Code originally grew out of the widespread protest over a number of repressive activities on the part of the Administration.

Nevertheless, since the advent of the new chancellor, the Code and its Bill of Rights have become endangered to the' point that now the Administration discounts and backs down on the Code’s more liberal provisions, such as the Michigan Plan, and then proceeds to render the entire Code ridiculous by castigating the MAROON for throwing a party!

The attitude of the present Administration had its graphic beginning in the suspension of the MAROON and dismissal of its editor in the Autumn of 1951. In its action it completely disregarded the Bill of Rights and thereby provoked strong protest on this and other campuses and received the criticism of the National Student Association Academic Freedom Committee.

Yet possibly because the protest was not strong enough, the following months brought further mitigation of the democratic spirit of the Code. The right of dissenting groups, such as the Labor Youth League and a large number of ad hoc to exist, was jeopardized by the policy of turning the required membership lists over to government agencies, including the FBI. Members of these organizations were offered a blacklisting in reward for exercising their right to congregate and speak.

More recently, the right to petition was greatly endangered. Although the action involved was taken by Student Government, it was a reflection of the trend initiated by the administration. Because, in the Student Representative Party’s campaign to secure pledges for its Co-operative Book Store project, it neglected a part of the code which had always been considered too restrictive to fully enforce, SRP was indicted and convicted by the tion Court. The provisions in question provide that petitions may not be circulated in those places—including the C-shop and the Mandel corridor—where a petition may be effectively examined and discussed. The conviction not only placed an organization into a position where its right to present activities and speakers of its choice could easily be challenged, but it provided precedent for suppression of a primary outlet of free speech and argument.

The Administration’s ambivalent attitude toward the Code is evident in the recent circumstances regarding the Michigan Plan. Apparently the administration feels now a repressive interpretation may be placed on one part of the Code while another part of the code may be watered down, if not neglected.

This ambivalence can only result in harm to the rights and privileges of the student body. We should demand that the Code be interpreted and amended so that it can only be applied in the liberal tradition of the University of Chicago. In the case of the Michigan Plan we must hold Strozier to his agreement to .enforce the plan as recently amended. In the case of petitioning, we must support the right of any organization to petition in the most effective way and demand that unduly restrictive provisions be stricken from the code. Whenever the Administration puts forward such petty charges as that presently against the MAROON, we must force these real issues into the foreground. The two-faced administration must be shown a one-faced Code and Bill of Rights.

Daniel Queen, Ray Nelson, Mitchell Slein, Suxanne Friedman, Richard Ward, Harry Whiteley, Robert Bloch, Frank Ternenyi, Naomi Birnbaum, Fred Winsberg, Shirley Long.

Disc

MAROON prints news only

Student Union has recently published a report which states that there is a general feeling that “the UC social program was being severely hampered and harmed by a lack of publicity, recognition, and communication”; and that the MAROON fails to give the social program enough space. The report goes on to say: “Furthermore— and this is the major problem—we want social ballyhoo—publicity and promotion—as well as communication.”

Therefore, Student Union has decided to publish a weekly paper of its own, the Student Union Forecast.

We feel that the MAROON must make clear its position on coverage of campus social events.

1) The MAROON attempts to cover news of general interest to UC students. This includes social events as well as academic, cultural, religious, sports, and (campus) political news. However, the MAROON attempts always to present in its news pages facts, not opinions. Therefore such expressions as “interesting,” “jolly,” “gay,” or “exciting” must be left out of news stories concerning social events, future or past. The facts presented in a non-partisan paper must be indisputable facts insofar as it is possible to make them so.

But the MAROON does try to give adequate coverage, especially of announcements and advances, to all campus activities.

2) The MAROON Calendar of Coming Events is open to all recognized student organizations who wish to use it. This calendar is never cut to make room for other articles.

3) The MAROON does not print ballyhoo for any organization, including itself.

Students Apathetic

As an alumnus living in me university community I have been able to follow the attitudes and the activities of the administration and the student body with perhaps a little more insight than the average alumnus whose sole contact is through the various publications of the Alumni Association. For more than several years I have been concerned with what I think is a failure in our much vaunted system of liberal education. The student is taught tc think, is given a considerable amount of factual knowledge, Is given the chance to develop a great deal of self discipline, but in the field of student social activities there is an insidious apathy. It is not that the University does not furnish the facilities; I doubt if many other institutions offer more, but when student organizations must draft people to fill their officer posts, when the Student Government must advertise on bulletin boards for people to fill vacant seats, when the school year book fails for lack of people interested enough to subscribe or do the necessary work, when WASH PROM, one of the few formal dances held on campus. loses large quantities of money (as it did last Saturday) because of lack of attendance, something is wrong.

Participation in student activities is as much a part of a liberal education as an understanding of Aristotle. In fact, if one is going into a vocation where public contact Is involved, experience gained from participation in student activities is invaluable. If students only realized this there would be keen competition for the various editorships offered on the Cap & Gown, the MAROON would be a daily paper not only to satisfy student needs but to give jobs to all those interested in serving on the paper; other organizations would be more efficient and Interesting because members would be more active and original hoping that someday they might deserve to be an officer In that organization. I consider the experience gained as an officer in student organizations as valuable as any other phase of my education at the University. Many men considered successful in their fields have made the same statement.

What causes this apathy? It may be the attitude of the administration. The University tries to give the student a free hand in his affairs. This means that those few students who are active get experience more valuable than that obtained at other schools while the majority is left wandering aimlessly missing a valuable part of their "liberal education.” Whatever the cause or whatever the cure you laggards are missing the boat and the opportunity to develop the leadership qualities that will make the difference between success and mediocrity in later life.

An Alumnus

S.G. needs power

In your edition of Febniary 12, you gave the false impression that I had left the Student Government meeting of the preceding Tuesday as a part of an SRP "protest demonstration.” Although a member of SRP and aware that such a demonstration was taking place, my reasons for leaving the meeting at that time were not connected with the protest demonstration. To put it briefly, I had intended to leave the meeting after the disposition of the issue centering around the Michigan Plan and my leave-taking coincided with that of the demonstrators. I do not feel that I was deliberately misrepresented by the MAROON, but I am concerned that the false impression of my position, which was undoubtedly communicated to my readers, be corrected. Although there was certainly some justification for the protest, which was in objection’ to the methods used to render the minority ineffective, I did not think that a walk-out was the most advisable course of action.

My letter of last week, which it was necessary to cut in order to find room for it, trailed off with the bald assertion that, "The most important thing to do is to reveal the weakness of SG's position.” This assertion needs some expanding before It becomes understandable. I was referring to the fact that Student Government has so little power of decision-making in the University set-up that it very often cannot effectively represent the student body. At many other schools which are more conservative in makeup, the Student Government has role jurisdiction over the recognition of student organizations and other purely or primarily student affairs. It is pretty clear that dividing the jurisdiction at any point with the Administration will largely emasculate SG’s power at that point. That is the situation which needs to be corrected before the student body can be said to have any amount of self-government.

Frank Kirk

SRP—Social Science

WHERE THE U of C MEETS TO EAT

FOODMIDWAY 3-4433

Import Pep

A friend of mine, who Is a student at the University of Chicago has told me that due to the atmosphere now prevailing at the U of C and the general apathy of the student body, school spirit, as well as enrollment, has been dropping.

An esoteric clan at the U of C, commonly referred to as the "RAH. RAH!” element, has been trying to alleviate the apathetic situation. The recent Wash Prom, the Pep Club, Cap & Gown, the SU Forecast, and the successive crowds at varsity basketball game* seem to justify their attempts.

But why is it that a small, yet noisy, group of "intellectual snobs” object to any resurgence of campus activities? Can it be that they are trying to mold everyone else in their own image? This same objection was raised towards Cap & Gown for their harmless, although popular, Hortense Fandangle advertisement in the “Wash Prom Phoenix.”

I must confess that I have a solution for student apathy at the U of C. To paraphrase Mister Publius’ letter in last week's MARO.ON, I would urge Mr Kimpton—as a goodwill gesture—to gift wrap the Phi Gams, DUs, Phi Delts, Zebes, etc.; the Cap & Gown staff; the Pep Club; and Bill Birenbaum, and return this spirit-spreading package to the University of Chicago campus.

Snickerty - snack! Snickerty - snack! Snickerty-snack.

— Porfirio

Letters

UT 'bigoted'

"Chicago Hauled Center of Bigotry” headed a news story on the 19th page of a Chicago evening newspaper. The University Theatre hardly contributed to the lessening of national and religious prejudice by staging "The Playboy of the Western World” on the eve of Brotherhood Week!

If "Streetcar Named Desire” is offensive to Pollsh-Americans and "The Merchant of Venice” is still objectionable to many Jews, can "The Playboy of the Western World" be any less offensive to Irish Catholics today than it was to the people who rioted against performances of the play in the early 1900’s not only in Dublin but in New York and Philadelphia?

Sygne, himself a member of a minority (Protestant) group, poured out his latent bitterness against his Catholic compatriots with -a mordacious humor not even Swift could have matched (though perhaps future generations— unfamiliar with the Irish stereotype— may rate it below his great tragedy, "Riders to the Sea," ana u uasey s early works). But Sygne wrote for his Irish compatriots. His death within two years may have been hastened by the realization of what a portrait of the Irish people he had given to the world. The PLAYBOY should be left on the bookshelf for the scholars, students and lovers of Irish literature.

Dearborn

John Switolski

vier

( s in a return showing of

Hamlet

। , by William Shakespeare .

Jean Simmons. Felix Aylmer I

; Today at: 6:15, 9:00 | ~_. At Popular Prices Students presenting their ID cards ot box office will be admitted for 50c any week night. Saturdays and Sundays until 5 p.m.

A New Design for Modern

Living

Jimmy’s

1172 E. 55

i%e ^l^um PHOTOGRAPHERS

1171 EAST 55th STREET

International House Movie Program

East Lounge, Monday and Thursday Evenings at 7:00-P.M. and 9:00 P.M. Monday, March I —CANADA AT THE CORONATION (Canadian) Admission Free

Thursday, March 4 —JULIUS CAESAR (American) Admission 35c

ACASA Book Store

GOOD USED BACKGROUND BOOKS

Best prices paid for Scholarly used Books

Guaranteed typewriter repair service 1I17E 55th St. RY 3-9651 |

1367 E. 57th St. •

THE RECORD OF THE WEEK Pete Seeger Concert 2 10'LP s . .$6.00

NO 7-9071 HYDE PARK THEATRE ^££J’ARK

Starting Fri., Feb. 26

Alt On One Great Film Program ANNAPURNA

LITTLE FUGITIVE and Two UPA cartoons: Edgar Allan Poe’s THE TELL-TALE HEART James Thurber's A UNICORN IN THE GARDEN

Student Rate 50c All Performances If You Present Your ID Card at the Boxoffice 1

February 26, 1954

THE CHICAGO MAROON

Page 5

COLLEGIATE SCENE

Law requires state books

with non'Communist oath

Sad news has come from the southland. The Plainsman, the student newspaper of Alabama Polytechnic Institute tells of new inroads made upon freedom of expression. It seems the state legislature of Alabama passed an act which says in effect:

Police, "howlers" guard campus

The robbery reported in the box below led the MAROON to find out what kind of protection the University and the police give to the campus and what measures the student can take to protect himself.

“ (1) The schools of this state shall not use any textbook or other written instructional material which does not contain a statement by the publisher or author thereof indicating that the author of the book or the author of any writings cited therein is or is not a known advocate of communism or Marxist socialism, is or is not a member of the Communist party or any Communist front organization.

(2) The use of literature prohibited by the act may be enjoined upon the application of any resident taxpayer.

(3) All literature previously adopted or approved for use must be made to conform to this act by January 1, 1955.”

Definition of “aggressive date"?

At Baylor University in Waco Texas, a university psychologist, Robert D. Wickham, has reported some interesting anxiety patterns after a study of some 700 coeds. He reports, “The assorted problems of courtship and marriage, including fear of ‘aggressive dates’ leads to more anxiety among college coeds than any other cause.” “More than 50 per cent of 700 girls expressed a conscious fear of ‘aggressive dates.’ ” Another significant statistic related that about 47 per cent fear that they will never be able to find a husband.

Lab work: Communist hunting

Attorney General Herbert Brownell has instituted a plan to utilize the nation's law students in “volunteer laboratory work.” The scheme employs law students as part-time Communist hunters and set them to work digging up evidence and information needed to prosecute subversives and criminals. Forty-eight law students from the New York City are now working without pay in the offices of the US attorneys in Manhattan and Brooklyn. Brownell 1 hopes to recruit law students in other states to help in each of the ’ nation’s ninety US attorneys’ offices. ।

Realism invades ivory tower |

The recent storm on a midwest i campus over the use of live babies 1 as training aids in a home eco- < nomics course seemed to be cen- I tered on how far institutions of < higher learning should go in their i quest for realism in instruction. ; Duke University recently accept- i Joseph Lohman

of Korean prisoner exchange group

“We went to Korea not to persuade the PW’s to return, but to give them an opportunity for free decision,” Joseph Lohman, former civilian consultant to the army with the UN Command Repatriation Group, told the MAROON in an interview this week.

The Joint Chiefs of Staff appointed Lohman to his post in Korea. “Stars and Stripes” called him “the quarterback of our team.”

Lohman, UC sociologist and lecturer, was formerly chairman of the Illinois State Pardon

and Parole Board and is now a Democratic candidate for sheriff of Cook County.

According to Lohman, the PW’s were “caught up in the web of communist intrigue and conspiracy.” The prisoners were never seen individually by the group. Freedom to come back was “severely limited” by their surveillance of each Other and the presence of the other communists.

Dickinson, one of those who did return, came back “almost by accident,” Lohman said. He got a

toothache and tai decided he home.”

“The most

while in the hospi“might as well go

important accomplishment of the mission was to give the Indians, Swiss, and Swedes experience with the com A joint interview with Tony Eidsen, the chief of the campus police and with W. R. Zellner, the man in charge of Buildings and Grounds, revealed the following facts about what the University has done to

help safeguard its students.

Mr. Eidsen said the campus police maintain a continualgpatrol of University property. This patrol consists of two cars with twoway radios and a number of

ed a $10,000 cash fund from a Winston-Salem philanthropist to give students in the business school practical experience in banking and investment techniques. With the reservation that the students could not sell short or buy on margin, the student board of directors, six students elected each school term, are free to make investments, buy stocks and bonds, and generally use the money as practical business men.

describes repatriation work

munist methods,” Lohman asserted.

“One of the major weapons in the communist arsenal, if not the major weapon, is group organization, and through such organization, the calculated use of the individual as an instrument of the over-riding purpose. That* purpose is nothing less than the incitement of world revolution with the total victory and hegemony of the Communists. The chief measure which the Communists employ in putting down free expression is the systematic destruction of privacy.”

Lohman was in charge of working out the content and strategy of the procedures in Korea. He formulated a "seven-point principle designed to raise questions

armed, experienced patrolmen who walk their beats. The patrols are so staggered that no two officers will be at the same place at the same time unless an emergency arises.

“All dorms,” Zellner said, “are equipped with blanket or curtain type flood lights; i.e., lights which throw their beams ovei a large area.” He further .explained that all dorms have prowler type alarms on their fire escapes. “Thesee alarms,” he said, “if set off, give out with a continuous howl. This howler, which is set on the outside of the building, will continue to howl until the police arrive. Then either one of the campus police or one of the B and G

in the men’s minds as to what had really happened to them.” The main import of the seven points is that choice under duress, or without full information, is not free choice.

“Our policy position,” Lohman explained, “dictates that the returned PW’s will not suffer as a result of their exercise of their right to remain for the 90-day period.” Each man’s case will be considered on its merits, with proper consideration of influence exerted on him, and each man will receive the benefits which accrued to him (back pay, etc.) during this period.

“The men will, however, be held responsible for actions or statements made during that time,” Lohman said.

engineers must turn it off and reset it. This same alarm will set off a signal at the annunciator at the attendent’s desk of the particular dormitory involved. This same alarm will set up a duplicate signal in the annunciator at the main switchboard of the university. These signals will also ring until a guard or an engineer resets it.

Zellner then explained that the prefabs have a howler and a rotating flood light set up on a tall post in the center of the prefab area. Any person living in the area or any guard may set off these alarms. These alarms can be seen and heard a long way off by any of the patrols in the area. These alarms also require a guard or an engineer to reset them.

It was also learned as a result of a phone conversation with an Officer Coffee (at the Hyde Park Police Station) that two Hyde Park police cars patrol this area continually. Fifty Seventh and Fifty-Ninth Streets are also patroled by officers walking their beats. In addition to the protection of the Hyde Park Police, this area is patrolled by Woodlawn police cars, pooled police cars from the downtown area, and Park District Police cars.

Channing Lushbough, house head of Hitchcock Hall, in a recent house meeting offered advice to the campus. 1) Do not carry large sums of money with you, carry only what you may need. 2) Do not walk the streets alone at night. 3) If you must for some reason leave the dormitories oi your own homes always let someone know that you are going out and what time you expect to be in. 4) If your person or your property is molested call immediately the campus police and then call the city police. If you are south of the Midway call the Woodlawn Police. If you are north of the Midway call the Hyde Park Police If you are on the Midway call (Im Park District Police.

WOOD STAI

K I STARTED ?\ SMOKING CAMELS AFTER

TRYING MANY BRANDS. I FOUND

CAMELS’ MILDNESS AND FLAVOR

FAR MORE ENJOYABLE THAN THE REST. YOU WILL,TOO! WHY DON'T YOU TRY K CAMELS TODAY? >

^vor Ofl MEl S AGREE WITH MORE PEOPIE

START SMOKING CAMELS YOURSELF!

Smoke only Camels for 30 days and find out why Camels are America's most popular cigarette. See how mild and flavorful a cigarette can be!

Jane Greer says: “I was a band singer when a picture magazine asked me to pose in the new WAC uniforms. Hollywood saw my picture, liked it and overnight I was in movies. From then on, it was hard work and perseverance.”

S§38W***’

“THAN ANY OTHER. CIGARETTE I Page 6

THE CHICAGO MAROON

February 26, 1954

^mitt^ e OMt&td ev&cte cm face^

Friday, February 26

•The Third Camp” is the topic of a discussion sponsored by the Politics Club at Ida Noyes, 8 p.m.

Hillel Fireside. Student Panel discussion “Can Religion Be Taught?” by Muni Finkelstein, Stanley Gevlrtz, Gunther Hellbrunn, Aryeh Motzkln; Roy Prosterman, moderator, at 8:30 p.m., 5715 Woodlawn. The Sabbath Service will precede the Fireside at 7:45.

Humboldt Club will present a lecture in English by Professor Bergstraesser on “The Future of German-American Relations,” at Wieboldt 408, 4 p.m. Donation 10 cents. Refreshments.

The Walgreen Foundation Lecture Series will be continued at Judd 126, 8 p.m. “TV A: National Power Policy,” will be presented by Gordon R. Clapp, Chairman of the Board, TV A.

University Concert: The Vegh String Quartet in a Beethoven,' Bartok, and Brahms program. Mandel Hall, 8:30 p.m.

Sunday, February 28

University Religious Service. The Reverend George Gordh. Chaplain, Hollins College, Virginia, will be the guest preacher. Rockefeller Memorial Chapel. 11 a.m.

UC Polish Club will hold a reception for new members at International House, 3 p.m. There will be a talk by Leon Kupeck, attorney and newspaper columnist on “Politics in Chicago.” Refreshments.

Carillon Recital: James R. Lawson. •Carillonneur, Rockefeller Memorial

Chapel, 4 p.m.

Chamberlin Open House. Light entertainment. B-J, 2-5 p.m. Refreshments served.

Glee Club Rehearsal: Singing, 4:30-6:30. Blaine 117, 59th and Kimbark.

Hillel Foundation Open House. Reception for midyear entering students, 5715 Woodlawn, 7:30-10:30. Refreshments, singing, and dancing.

Calvert Club will sponsor a lecture by Dr. E. M. K. Gelling, professor of pharmacology, entitled “Medicine and Morality,” at De Sales House, 5735 University Avenue. It will be followed by a supper at 6 p.m. for 65 cents and a meeting for the quarter.

The Porter Graduate Fellowship will sponsor a talk by Professor J. Haroutunian on the meaning of the crucifixion, at International House, Room A, 7:30. Discussion and refreshments.

Monday, March 1

•Canada at the Coronation” is the title of a film to be shown at International House, East lounge at 7 and 9 p.m. Admisison 35 cents.

Toung Democrats Club will sponsor a speech by Joe Lohman, Democrat candidate for sheriff, on his experiences [wanted] J Sales Cirl j J full or part time (

I women's better shoes 

COOPER’S SHOES

1 1521 E. 55th St. (

SILVER PALM

1117 Wilson Ave.

presents

ART HODES

The greatest blues pianist and his Backroom Boys featuring

Jimmy Granato, Clarinet Seven years at the Radio City Music Hall Five years with Jimmy Durante

Muggsy Dawson, Cornet Just returned from European tour

Happy Gormley, Drums Formerly with the Third Army Band Eddie Schaefer, Trombone Formerly with the Chez Paree orchestra, Jazz Limited, radio and records

Alt emat in^Band

PHIL DOOLEY and his comedy jazz band 3 years at the Palmer House Eddie Smeeth, Piano featured with name bands Nev Barclay, Guitar and Banjo formerly with Lew Breese, Red Hodgson, Gennett recordings, WGN, Mutual, and CBS networks

Ao rover and no minimum

in Korea. Lohman talked to the “21” who didn’t return, the Communist explainers, and the Indian guards. Social Sciences 122, 8 p.m.

“A Glance at Contemporary Education in Britain” is the topic of a lecture given by Miss Sheila Butler, senior lecturer, Southlands College, University of London. Judd 126, 4 p.m.

Inter-Varsity Christian Fellowship will meet for a luncheon and a talk by Miss Grace Lincoln who will speak about her experiences as a missionary in Morocco. Ida Noyes, third floor, 12:30-1:20 p.m. Everyone invited.

“Can Adults Be Educated?” A discussion on the effectiveness of adult political education, will be the topic of a lecture sponsored by the Communication Club. Participants include Kenrteth P. Adler, instructor in communication as moderator, Ralph W. Tyler, professor of education and Charles A. Nelson, executive director of the American Foundation for Political Education.

A William Vaughn Moody Lecture will take place at Mandel Hall at 8:30 p.m, Sean O’Faolain, Irish novelist, story writer, biographer and critic will speak on “Six Novelists In Search of a Hero.” #

UC Mountaineering Group will hold a discussion on basic climbing techniques and principles. Rosenwald 26, 7:30 p.m.

The Pre-Med Club will meet at Abbott 133 from 4 to 5 p.m. Tom Dutcher, President of the Student AMA will speak on “The AMA.”

The Center for Study of American Foreign Policy will sponsor a lecture dealing with Great Britain, the Soviet Union and the United States. The speaker is J. H. A. Watson, Counsellor at the British embassy in Washington, D. C. Soc. Scl. 122, 8:15 p.m. Admission free.

Wednesday, March 3

University Glee Club will have a rehearsal from 7 to 9 p.m. Blaine 117, 59th and Kimbark. .

A Carillon Recital will take placed :30 p.m. at Rockefeller Chapel with James Lawson as carllloneur.

“Chicago at Mid-Century” is the subject of a lecture series sponsored by the Department of Geography. The first in the series, “Chicago: Univerin ALL A MATTER OF TASTE

When you come right down to it, you smoke for one simple reason enjoyment. And smoking enjoyment is all a matter of taste. Yes, taste is what counts in a cigarette. And Luckies taste better.

Two facts explain why Luckies taste better. First, L.S./M.F.T.—Lucky Strike means fine tobacco ... light, mild, goodtasting tobacco. Second, Luckies are actually made better to taste better always round, firm, fully packed to draw freely and smoke evenly.

So, for the enjoyment you get from better taste, and only from better taste, Be Happy—Go Lucky. Get a pack or a carton of better-tasting Luckies today.

COLLEGE SMOKERS PREFER LOCKIES

A comprehensive survey—based on 31,000 student interviews and supervised by college professors—shows that smokers in colleges from coast to coast prefer Luckies to all other brands! The No, 1 reason: Luckies’ better taste!

,f steady work

^!"<u>

COPR., TN* AMKRICAN TOBACCO COMPANT

WMMMR

-,1?^ Wt^^4a*4"j“#O19

LUCKIES TASTE BETTER

Classified ' For Rent

Furnished room kitchenette. Linen, refrigerator, utilities. $9.20 week. BU 6-9736.

Sleeping rooms for men, clean, quiet. $6.50 up. 1514 E. 54th.

Large, airy room, private family. $6 a week. Meyers, 5323 Ellis, DO 3-0500.

Newly decorated 2 and I1,2 room furnished apartments, 2 blocks from Unlsity. Linens, daily maid service, reasonable rent. 6107 Dorchester Ave., PL 2-9641?

sity and Region,” will be delivered by Harold M. Mayer and Aklen K. Philbrick, Assistant Professors of Geoggraphy, at Social Science 122, 8 p.m. The Decline and Fall of Magazine Science Fiction is the title of a discussion sponsored by UC Science Fiction Club. Edward Wood will lead the discussion. Ida Noyes, 7:30 p.m. Admission free.

UC Sailing Club will hold a general meeting In which spring preparations will be discussed. A motion picture will be shown also, at Ida Noyes East Lounge, 7:30 p.m.

International House Discussion Group will deal with “East-West Trade: Road to Peace or Appeasement?” The speaker is De Witt Gilpin, International Representative of United Electrical Workers Union. East Lounge. Int. House, at 8 p.m.

“Ireland and the Twelfth-Century Renaissance” is the topic of a lecture to be given at Breasted Hall, 8:30 p.m. The lecturer is Professor Charles W. Dunn of University College, University of Toronto.

Thursday, March 4

“Julius Caesar” is the United States film that will be shown at Int. House. 7 and 9 p.m. Admission is 35 cents. Sailing Club will sponsor a racing class, 7:30 p.m., at Columbia Yacht Club.

Calvert Club will sponsor its annual Aquinas Lecture, “How the Human Mind Knows God.” The speaker Is James F. Anderson, professor of Philosophy, University of Notre Dame. Breasted Hall, 8 p.m. The lecture is open to the public.

♦akes three yed^ 0 It only takes ^T.

Warren Pe"y ^ Northwestern U

. our favorite W :^^?& Wins cheers no

Personals

Nan: Contact me immediately in regards to Phyllis. Call me at home or MAROON. Mickey.

Dear Publius: Someday I’ll find you. Sincerely, Hortense Fandangle, c/o Cap and Gown, Reynolds Club.

Classified ads ore free for 15 words to any student, faculty member or employee of the University.

Lost and Found

Lost: Elgin wrist watch, metal band, last seen in Burton recreation room. Contact Alan Harrod, 848 B.J.

Lost: gold colored Schaeffer pen; Sat., 3 p.m., between Culver and Harper. Reward. Howard Goldfine, Hitchock.

Lost: Hand wrought silver wedding ring on campus last week. Reward. Phone 3782 or BU 8-6763.

Lost: Copy Shakespeare. (Harrison edition) in or near B-J. Please call Arthur Waldman, MI 3-6000.

Found: one dollar bill. Owner must state time and place it was lost. Eugene Meyer, Hitchock Hall.

For Sale

Clean 1937 Pontiac 8, 4-door sedan, excellent condition, uses no oil. Try it. $95. MU 4-3984.

FM tuner, Howard model 482, FM. $15.

Call DO 3-0017.

K & E log log duplex decltrig slide rule, 12-inth, mahogany with case, $15. Roger Bernhardt, DO 3-2531.

1950 Dodge 4-door sedan, excellent condition, good tires, chrome, battery, one owner. Cajl HY 3-8645 evenings.

Not thing of beauty, Joy forever, but runs good. ’47 Nash. R., H $125 BU 89870, Alexander

Wanted

Skiers for wonderful vacation March 19-28. Cost only $75. Call Don Wentzel Student Union, Ex. 1003.

Wanted to rent: Garage to store 19* boat until May 15. Call Robert Baron FA 4-1294. .

Ride wanted to Florida between quarters. Will share driving, expenses. Leave message at FA 4-8200, rm. 920.

Jovial fraternity men desire ride to NYC over interim. $25. Contact Appel or Rosenthal. PL 2-9647.

Ride to NY about March 20-29. Will share expenses and driving. Stan Pulrang. KE 8-1005.

Girl’s bicycle; FM radio. Call International House, Room 418.

Employment for Saturdays and/or weekdays and/or week nights. I am 20 and male. R. Smith, PL 2-2980.

Ride to Philadelphia, March 18. Will share expenses. Pastor, MU 4-6917.

Services

Mathematics, special Instruction to fit your mathematical needs. Individual or group sessions at our Loop office or location of your choice. Soglln Associates, ST 2-6727.

Typing done accurately, reasonably. Call Mrs. Pannabecker, KE 6-8689, or set Pannabecker, Zoology 31-A.

Piano lessons at home. Oberlin graduate, 1948. Call MU 4-1458 after 6 p.m.

p@ WITH ^ZOpy A and MEET THE PEOPLE! in PRIVATE CAR TOURS of

EUROPE

•t prices designed to fhyowburfget Seoyowr trevol egent.

STOP TOURS, Berkeley, Calif.

CLEANER, FRESHER, SMOOTHER I February 26, 1954

THE CHICAGO MAROON

Page 7

Playwrights do 'Murder in Cathedral'; unconvincing performance of dull play

Last Wednesday night Playwrights theater club opened a four-week run of T. S. Eliot’s religious play, Murder in the Cathedral, a play based on the murder in his cathedral of Thomas Becket, the Archbishop of Canterbury, by agents of the king of England, Henry II.

This is a poetic drama presented in the Greek classic form, dealing with the struggle between the church and the state. Thomas Becket, the Saint Thomas of Chaucer’s “Canterbury Tales,” was the king’s chancellor under Henry II and was made Archbishop of Canterbury, the head prelate of England, 

UT over ambitious

University Theatre produced a funny, spirited play last weekend. It was purported to be a rendition of Synge’s Playboy of the Western World, which is also a spirited play. Unfortunately, the spirits weren’t the same. UT’s production was almost a burlesque of the wonderfully wry and realistic play Synge evidently had in mind. The imposition of UT’s tradiin an attempt to combine the two offices. Becket though, upon attaining the latter office, resigned the former and held himself to be representative only of the church and of the Pope. This, of course, brought him in conflict with the king and he was forced to go in exile for seven years, after which the king, under pressure brought by the Pope, invited him back for reconciliation. Upon arriving in England, Becket reasserted his power as representative of the Church and the Pope. The play deals with the events that followed.

Eliot treats Becket as a true

generally found to be a competent actor, in his performance of Becket was unconvincing. The chorus of women was not too bad, though at times it used mannerisms which seemed to be carried over from the recent performance of Three Penny Opera. With the exception of Alex Horn who played a tempter and a knight, the cast did not show an understanding of the message carried by the play.

The group concerned itself, apparently, with only the internal conflicts of Becket in his developing martyrdom. They paid little attention, beyond his

striving to remain a good Chris* tian, to Becket’s cause — his struggle with the Church against the state in a battle not for equality, but for supremacy. A better performance would have stressed the message with which Eliot ties the play together.

It is not hard for one to see why a company with the liberal traditions of Playwrights theater would present an unconvincing performance of a play which advocates salvation of man through the supremacy of the church.

Albert Sciaky

tional ballet-like style on such material was disastrous. The audience laughed at all the wrong places, but in this production they seemed to be the right places. This gave the performance an Al ice-In-Wonderland quality, with confusion substituting for Synge’s feeling.

Otis Imboden’s direction of the complex, yet uncluttered plot left everything to be desired. The girls fluttering and posturing around the stage had more character than the spitfire Pegeen. The ballet business was tasteless and overdone, thoroughly overwhelming the plot. Worst of all, the diction was so bad that less than half the lines were understandable. The players pranced about the

stage, muttering some lines and shouting others.

James Holland turned in a fine performance. I suppose it wasn’t his fault that he couldn’t look like Christy. Lawrence Zerkel, Suzanne Mehler, Leon Wannerman, Martha Silvermand and Catherine Allison made rather good attempts at their roles. Lois Karbel, the perennial UT charmer, managed to upstage everyone and make too much of her bit part.

The handsome set designed z by Stanley Kazdalis deserves all sort of praise. It’s too bad that-so much work had only that bit of imagination to grace it. UT has been much more successful with less ambitious productions.

Christian who attains martyrdom for the right reasons and in the proper manner. He shows Becket coming out unblemished after going through various temptations administered by all the conniving forces in England and even the temptation of his pride. Finally, when Becket is killed by agents of the king, the Church is triumphant. The Priests understand, the people understand, and the cause of the king is defiled.

The play drags badly due to the length and overuse of the choral interlude. The performance on the whole was also dull and unimaginative. Ed Asner, whom I have

Review shows good student work

The current issue of the Chicago Review, although on the whole average and unspectacular, does contain several items of decided merit. It is gratifying to note that UC students have contributed some of the most satisfactory work. However, criticism of the Review must go beyond the particular merits of the separate contributions to the consideration of whether full advantage is made of the Reviews potentialities. Chief among these potentialities are its possibilities for unrestricted student contributions, its non-deportmental

status, and lack of attachment to any partisan group. The success of the Review must be judged in relation to these factors.

The student contributions in this issue were limited to creative

FOR THAT “NEW LOOK IN HOME AND GARDEN.

RINEHART GARDEN LIBRARY

each $

Evergreens, Lawns, Roses, Annuals, Vegetables, Small Fruits. Practical up-to-date guides.

HOW TO RESTORE CHINA BRIC-A-BRAC AND

SMALL ANTIQUES by 

Expert instruction on how to pick up the pieces!

HOW TO MAKE MOBILES by 

Be your own Calder. Instructions and diagrams.

HOUSE AND GARDEN'S GUIDE TO INTERIOR DECORATION 

Most comprehensive guide to decorating. Almost 2000 illustrations! *

$

$

1.50

3.00

3.00

$10.00

HOMES OF THE BRAVE by Robsjohn Giddings. . .$ 3.50

A critical survey of modern architecture from

ranch house to fish bowl . drawings.

GUIDE TO EASIER LIVING Built-in convenience and for Apartment and House.

with Mary Petty

by Wright.

streamlined routines

. .$ 2.95

UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO

BOOKSTORE

5802 Ellis Avenue

writing and several short book reviews. Most significant were the poems Phoenix by Michael Girsdansky and Full Circle by Peter Hanen. Phoenix is a well constructed poetic transformation of the well known legend. Full Circle proceeds through the develo p m e n t of some compelling imagery but suffers from unclearness in reference.

Both deal with the importance of human values, but where Girsdansky affirms them ("But from the ashes comes the ticking of the egg / And the pain is fierce but quick / And in it find my own hot Resurrection”), Hanen only asserts their necessity ("Out of sun, landed leaves go black / but who can tell which branch is dead / when leaves are gone.”

Fox, Red Fox, a short story by Rene D. Hamm suffers from an incomplete development that tends to assimilate both characters to a type—the isolated romantic. This, despite the apparent intention of the writer tends to place the woman in an extremely reprehensible light.

Encounter, by Patricia Mc Kenna, beyond its symbolism and form borrows from the roniantic tradition its conception of values: that values are a hindrance to life. This misconception vitiates the value of the final revelation — the meaninglessness of life without values.

Artur Castillo’s short story is a penetrating study of a group of “Bohemians” whose behavior and political attitudes suffer from

their self-imposed isolation from the day-to-day world. Yet his “flow-of consciousness” presentation makes the development of his characters unclear to the reader who has not had direct contact with the attitudes and persons involved. He does not realize that art, being a communicative medium, tries to make the content of its subject matter real to its entire audience.

Marianne Moore has translated two fables of La Fontaine that are parables on human situations. The Wolf Plays Shepherd shows the downfall of the wolf-hypocrite for, “a counterterfeit’s sure to be exposed to light. / A wolf is a wolf in every pulse; / No use pretending something else.” Digger and Partner is the amusing fable of the miser who finally learns to spend his wealth. Miss Moore’s work has a very direct communicative power, for she has placed the fables within a clear, unpretentious poetic form that adds to the incisiveness of the parables. Compared to the muddled efforts of an E. E. Cummings they are models of honesty.

W. R. K e a s t and Elliot M. Schero contribute the major critical articles, the explication of the argument in Wallace Stevens Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird and the line of development in Keats’ Ode on a Grecian contextual analyses, yet most of Urn, respectively. Both are sound their conclusions about the meaning of the poems suffer either from vagueness or obviousness.

Had they no aversion to a broad and insightful consideration of the works in relation to the lives and times of the poets they would not have been stopped at that level. Keast, in speaking of the introverted and arid Steven’s poem is not so much at fault as Schero, who discusses K e a t ’ s more meaningful work which demands a deeper analysis.

The major substantive essay, David Riesman’s Freud, Religion and Science, suffers from the apparent lack of any critical method, and indeed, it is difficult to see how a method can be applied in the face of so many vague and shifting references. This is unfortunate for it tends to throw doubt on even the more plausible assertions. Selection of a really significant issue, one that had a genuinely problematic nature would have -compelled a more rigorous approach.

Most of the remaining works are by non-student contributors, indeed non-student works comprise the bulk of the magazine. It is apparent that the best work should b e encouraged, either the editors of the review have not taken full advantage of student work or student writers have neglected a major creative outlet. Surely there are students capable of writing on social and philosophic issues and of creating prose and poetry dealing with real problems beyond the narrow institutional point of view toward which the Review tends.

Frank G. Ternenyi Daniel Queen

PUBLIC LECTURE

“AMONG THE PHILOSOPHERS: SWEDENBORG"

Swedenborg's philosophy comprises a "two-world" system which is not dualism, and is, in a sense, pragmatically self - checking. As a structure for a theology, it is remarkably consistent and distortion free. He developed the concept of correspondences of discrete degrees, a principle of unity that logically meets the objections of all classical systems. A rational faith is so interwoven with the logic that his philosophy as a whole does not fit readily into classical schemes. There is a synthesis of many ideas from other philosophers, with a strong empirical current.

HARRY A. ZISOOK & SOHS

University District Renting Office

MAYFLOWER HOTEL 6125 KENWOOD AVENUE

Let us help you

GET OUT OF THE ROOMING HOUSES AND SUBSTANDARD BUILDINGS IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD For the convenience and accommodation of the Students. Faculty and Employees of the University we have opened a University District Renting Office to serve you in obtaining better housing.

Come In and let us know what your requirements are so that we may assist you.

• DR. HOWARD SPOERL

Professor of philosophy at American International College, Springfield, Mass.

Sunday Evening, February 28th

7:00 P.M.

THE SWEDENBORG PHILOSOPHICAL CENTRE

5710 South Woodlawn You Are Welcome

AVAILABLE NOW AND/OR MARCH 1st

Hotel rooms with private bath and shower Sgl.— $8 per wk.; dbl.—$12 per wk.

Hotel apts. with switchboard and maid service

1 rm. apt. at $90 per mo.

2 rm. apt. at $107.50 per mo.

office hours 9 a.m. to 5 p.m Monday thru Friday THERE IS NO CHARGE FOR THIS SERVICE

main office

HARRY A. ZISOOK & SOHS

Real Estate

17111.71st FL 2-5960

Serving Chicago since 1907 

Cogers fell Elmhurst; UT wins

by Richard Herwitt

In their best-spirited and bestplayed game of the season, the Maroon basketbailers avenged a prior defeat at the hands of Elmhurst College by whipping them, 68-55, in the Field-House last Friday. On Tuesday, however, Coach Norgren’s men were at a decided disadvantage on Illinois Tech’s court and dropped their match to the giant Techawks, 75-53.

After a four point deficit in the first quarter, Dave Smith and Bob Mann started hitting the Elmhurst hoop on set shots while Fred Hubbard rebounded successfully against Pat Lira, Tech’s, star center, and the Maroons took a basket edge at the half.

After a nip-and-tuck third riod, Chicago, found itself in

one

pethe

driver’s seat in the final quarter and steadily pulled away from tired Elmhurst. Several tallies were made on fast breaks and foul shots as Dick Homer led fourth quarter scorers.

Tech’s Lira led the scoring with 29 points. Smith and Mann led the Maroons with 20 and 19 points tach.

The Tech game was one-sided from the beginning. Chicago played a slow game to keep the score from mounting, but they could not penetrate Tech zone defense. At half-time the Maroons trailed 30-17.

The second half was played faster than the first, but the Maroons’ deficiency in height gave Tech more chances to break and tip under the board. Chicago got Within 12 points of Tech at one point, but IIT quickly increased its lead to win by an easy margin.

Wrestlers split two contests

The UC wrestling squad split two matches at Augustana College last Saturday. The Maroons defeated Augustana 21-11 and lost to Western Illinois Teachers 29-3. Coach Allan Bates was the only Maroon to win a match against Western Teachers.

Swimmers lose to Washington

The varsity season closed

for

Maroon swimmers last Saturday as they were drowned in Bartlett Pool by the Washington Bears, 59-26. Next week the swimming Maroons participate in the Chicago Intercollegiate matches.

Qymnasts lose to Indiana, MU

Despite excellent trampoline tumbling by Bob Herndon, the Maroon gymnastics team dropped matches to Indiana and Northwestern by scores of SOHda’/i and 50-46. respectively.

MMMHMHWHOIMa^M^H

THE CHICAGO MAROON

February 26, 1954

UC sailors prepare

for coming season

by Al Fortier.

With Spring a few weeks away the UC Sailing Club is busy preparing for the 1954 sailing season. In Thursday night shore-school classes at Columbia Yacht Club, landlubbers have been instructed in the basic points of nautical skill, while advanced members have picked up valuable pointers on racing

tactics.

Commodore Ellsworth Mc Clenachan has been planning the Spring racing schedule with other midwest schools. Boatrepair will be keeping Fleet Captain Bob Baron busy between now and launching date, which is whenever the ice melts in the Grant Park Harbor.

The Sailing Club has been a part of the extra-curricular program since 1939, making it one of the oldest collegiate sailing organizations in the midwest. The war interrupted activities from 1942 until 1946 when returning veterans re activated the club.

Chicago member of association

In 1948 Chicago became one of the charter members of the Midwest Collegiate Sailing Association, which has since grown to 27 members. During the following years the club offered a varied program to the student body. After most of the leaders left school in 1951, the club was inactive for a year.

With the beginning of 1953 the club activity increased greatly. Large - scale publicity attracted many new members, the instruction program was revised and expanded. and there was an increase in sailing for pleasure. While the racing results were not outstanding, many people participated in the enlarged racing schedule.

Other colleges participate

This year the Midway mariners will have collegiate company at the yacht club. Northwestern, Illinois Tech and UC have arranged to combine their fleets and other facilities to benefit all schools. Every weekend students will be congregating at the club to spend the days sailing on Lake Michigan. The sailing team will travel across the midwest, and on off-dates will practice among themselves.

With Mc Clenachan and Baron pacing the team, the sailing team expects its best season in four years. New members will be

SPORTS EVENTS THIS WEEK

Tomorrow

Thursday

JV Track Hyde Pk. & Crane Field-House Tech H.S. 3:30 Fencing Ohio State 4:00 Bartlett Gym JV Basketball Private School League Semi-Finals 7:30 Field-House Fencing Iowa and Mich. State 1 :30 Bartlett Gym Track Monmouth and Butler 2:00 Field-House Wrestling Notre Dame 2:30 Bartlett Gym JV Basketball Private School League Semi-Finals 7:30 Field-House Track Elmhurst *& Wright Jr. College 4:00 * Field-House

Maroon trackmen defeat Northwestern Bradley and Loyola

ola 25.

Frank Loomos continued his undefeated string by winning the low-hurdles in meet-record time of :08.0, also taking 2nd in the 60 yard dash and 4th in the highhurdles to lead Maroon scorers. George Mc Cormick thrilled the crowd by coming from behind at the tape to win the 440 in 51.1. Ken Stapley once again won nis specialty, the 880.

Maroons sweep two-mile

The turning point of the meet came in the two-mile run, when Captain Walt Deike led Jim Flynn. Hal Higdon and Paul Baptist, all Chicago men. to a four-man sweep of the event, scoring 14 points. Deike and Higdon had earlier taken 2nd and 4th in the mile, nesota, Washington, D e P a u w , The mile-relay team of Dave Northwestern, Marquette, and Shephard, Phil Wyatt, Justin

learning the ropes from old salts. Besides informal parties, a big meet is planned for early May when Chicago plays host to Minby Justin Johnson

Coach Ted Haydon’s track team proved once again that they can “run for fun” and still beat the best by handing Northwestern, Bradley and Loyola a decisive defeat in a quadrangular meet last Saturday at the Fieldhouse.

The varsity rolled up 69 points, winning four events, while their Big Ten opponent, Northwestern, placed second with 51 Bradley scored 30 and 

little closer to the University of Chicago record in this event, running a fast 3:24.8. An improvement of less than two seconds in this event would shatter a Chicago record which has stood for over twenty years.

Loyola sends rooters

It is interesting to note that the Loyola team had as many cheering enthusiasts at the meet as Chicago. Perhaps future contests will attract more Maroon supporters. since the team has won consistently this year.

The final result of the JV meet last Thursday was Austin 57, University 34, and Riverside-Brookfield 16. Captain Jim Brown set a new JV record in the 440, running a very fast :52.8. Other victors were Dick Scupi in the mile. Chuck Youse in the shotput and Mike Chernoff, who tied for 1st in the pole vault.

IIT.

Johnson and Mc Cormick crept a