1

4 a

UC prof faces sub-committee; given leave to prepare defense by Mitchell Slein

Vai R. Lorwin, assistant professor of industrial relations, who has been indicted by a federal grand jury for perjury while testifying before a Senate sub-committee, is in Washington, D.C., preparing his case.

In order to give him enough time to prepare his defense, the University has given him a leave of absence with full pay for as long a time as is necessary. He has engaged as his attorney, F. Joseph Donahue. Donahue was the special government prosecutor who tried the case against Bridges. sor °* industrial relations and ex- full opportunities to present his

Backed by superior ecutive officer of the Industrial case “in accordance with the con John P. Caidwell, director of Relations Council stated that he cept that every man is innocent labor research projects, who is felt that Lorwin was one of the until proven guilty by a jury of Lorwin’s immediate superior, said most competent people in his field his peers.”

that he was willing to back him and that he is one of the best University has been fair

all the way. He stated further that known experts on foreign labor The consensus in the departhe was prepared to accept Lor- movements. He continued that ment is that the university adwin’s word and that he believes in Lorwin’s writings are noted for ministration and the board of him. As to Lorwin’s ability as a their anti-communist flavor and trustees have been “extremely teacher, he said that he had been that in his writings he has con- fair” with Lorwin. The feeling is competent and efficient. When stantly attacked them. that no other institution would

asked what would be his stand on Harbison said that he was re- have given him a leave of absence Lorwin’s returning to UC should sponsible for bringing Lorwin to with full pay and not taken any he be acquitted, Caldwell said that UC last Sept. 15. He said that “mo- action against him.

“As far as I am concerned, he will tions day” (the day that the de- Herbert K. Burns, executive ofbe restored to his position.” fense motions will be presented in ficer of the Industrial Relations

Lorwin expert on labor court) will be January 8. He fur- Center, is in New Jersey and not

Frederick H. Harbison, profes- ther stated that he will be given available for comment.

Ward touring Soviet Union

WESTERN.,„, E

-UNION ’“^

[VLT-tart Victory U^

Oteii Oc L

CTCDUr>2 J PD IM1VZL MOSCOW Iff* VOCABLES 2 2250c

•LT Arthur brow chicaw Haroon university of Chicago U ^ CH60

•LEAVING MOSCOW FOK SHORT TOUR OF WESTERN USSR GOING LENINGRAD MINSK KIEV SOCHI KHARKOV TBILISI ADDRESS

NATIONAL HOTEL MOSCOW CHICAGO JAN 2Sv

RICHARD £ WARDs. '

Social thinkers, sinologists, Walgreen presents lectures

University of Chicago, January 8, 1954

Polanyi talks on mind

The Committee on Social Thought is sponsoring a series of eight lectures by Michael Polanyi, F.R.S., on the topic, “Personal Knowledge: Tiie Realm of Unspoken Affirmation.” Polanyi, professor of social studies at the University of Manchester, delivered the first lecture of the series yesterday afternoon. Succeeding lectures will be given on January 14, 21, and 28, and February 4, 11, 18, 25 in Social Sciences 122 at _ 4:30 p.m.

Q. S. Pettee speaks on “Soldiers, Civilians”

“Soldiers and Civilians” is the topic of a series of six public lectures to be given during the winter quarter by George S. Pettee, deputy director of the Operations Research Office at John Hopkins University. Sponsored by the Charles R. Walgreen Foundation, the lectures will be given in Social Sciences 122 at 4:30 p.m. Be Kimpton cites University views on racial segregation

ginning on Monday, January 11, with “Soldiers, Scientists and Politicians,” the scheduled suband community deterioration during fraternity talk

"The University is dedicated to the creation and maintenance of a community upon an unsegregated, inter-racial basis. We view the policy of racial segregation as not only illegal but bankrupt and fruitless/ Lawrence A. Kimpton told the Kappa Alpha Psi Fraternity December 27th.

Kimpton made this statement as guest speaker at the fraternity's public forum in Mandel Hall.

"Chicago's race problem cannot be solved by the laudable commitment to love one’s neighbor. Everything would be just dandy if everybody loved everybody,” Kimpton said, “but the fact is that they don’t, and and why they don’t is more relevant and important than the reiteration of the pious hope.”

Migration major problem

One of the problems which must be faced, said Kimpton, is the Negro’s rapid migration into Chicago from relatively backward Southern agricultural communities.

These newcomers, he continued, face profound problems of adjustment to the completely industrialized life in Chicago. They

BSHS”^ hopes to gain more divisional integration

The reason that the problem for the Negro has become increasingly acute and complex, asserted Kimpton is that “two generations of Chicagoans, both white and Negro, have been educated to the pattern of physical residential segregation, and custom, economic pressure, and for a long time law have combined to enforce it.”

UC does not deny challenge

“No university could morally refuse to meet the challenge of its ability to act rationally, and to educate the community of which it is an integral part,”

Kimpton gives reason for BA change;

Kimpton declared. Therefore, the University has adopted certain very clear policies.

“First, the problem of community deterioration is not a racial problem. The enforcement of zoning, housing and building codes, the prevention of overcrowding, the insistence upon proper standards of maintenance have nothing to do with the race, creed or color of either the owner or occupant of any building’. A blunt insistence on effective law enforcement and effective action to prevent the deterioration and misuse of property is neither anti-white nor anti Negro. It is simply pro-government.

"University part of community"

“Second, the University recognizes that it is only a part of a community, and that an effective program must be a community program, not merely a University program.

'•'Third, the solution to the problem involves more than merely maintaining what we now have. A substantial portion of our city, including many parts of the University community, must be rebuilt and redesigned to meet the

See “Kimpton " page 4)

jects are: January 13, “The Concept of Duty”; January 15, “The Privacy of the State”; January 18, “The Power of Knowledge”; January 20, “The Big Questions”; and January 22, “Responsibility.”

Chinese civilization discussed by Creel

A series of five lectures on “Aspects of Chinese Civilization,” presented by the Committee on Far Eastern Civilizations, will open Monday night, January 11, in Social Sciences 122. H. G. Creel will lecture on “The Chinese Language.” The remaining lectures, “Chinese Thought,” to be given by Creel, “Chinese Political Theory,” by E. A. Krackc. Jr., “Religion in China,” by J. M. Kitagawa, and “Chinese Art,” by Ludwig Backhofer, will be given on successive Thursday and Monday nights at 8 p.m.

Scholars given higher degrees

Zechariah Chafee, foremost legal scholar on the freedom of the press, and Harry A. Wolfson, noted historian of western thought, were awarded honorary degrees at the Autumn Convocation in Rockefeller Memorial Chapel.

Two hundred fifty-five University graduates heard Newton Edwards, UC professor of education, speak on the importance of complete freedom ot information and appeal in these critical times. “Appeal to reason is important to a free society, and free access to the mind must be maintained If citizens are not to become the victims of special interest, of half truths, of false premises, and of propaganda, they must be equipped with the habit of demanding adequate evidence and with the power of rational analysis of it,” Edwards said.

high-schools, the source of its students. Its internal problem, the schism between the College and the Divisions, he said, was also due to the existing plan. The new College program, however, rectifies this problem of the separation of the two, said Kimpton. A new program of teacher-training, started this summer, will better relations with high schools and also help solve the problem of how to get more substance and integration into the last two years of high schoo L

Draws attention

The Chancellor drew attention to the fact that though high school graduates had always been UC’s largest source of students, it had been found that most of them were required Io take much more than two year’s work to complete the College. “And,” said Kimpton, “most of our students felt that general education was not enough. The Bachelor’s degree

"It is one thing to be apart from our rivals and another to be apart from our roots." Thus Chancellor Kimpton summed up the reasons for the change in the College plan in his State of the University report to the Faculty senate in November of last year.

He drew a parallel between the life time of the existing plan and the alienation of the University from

became a terminal degree at which students did not terminate. And for those going on for advance study the program for the Master’s degree in all the divisions stretched out three years beyond the Bachelor’s.

UC separated from student sources

“We were separated ourselves,” continued the Chancellor, “not only from high schools and internally from one another but also very clearly from the diversified sources from which we had long drawn our students. Now it is deep within our tradition that our gates are open wide to all those who share one article of faith— a justified belief in a life of the mind (But) for a large and diversified body of students, the gate-became tpo narrow and the way too long.

“These are not my opinions only. They or something close to them are the opinions of the great majority of the faculty, which

last spring through its representative body, the University Council, relocated and redefined the Bachelor’s degree. As redefined, the Bachelor’s degree will signify more than a general grasp of the main fields of knowledge. It will include in addition, a knowledge of a single field sufficient to permit one to enter and master that field.”

"No pressures exerted": LAK

Kimpton stated that it was nonsense to believe that practical pressure interfered with academic statesmanship in bringing about the changes.

Kimpton said that UC is still operating in the red—though he expects a balanced budget by next year. The deficit this year was $325,000 (a record low for the University) and the gifts totaled over $6,000,000 which compares with the figure of $5,000,000 of 1951-52.

Chancellor reports on other problems

He closed his report by praising the stands of those of the faculty and staff who were called to testify before the Senate Internal Security Sub-Committee last spring. Said Kimpton, “These men have a special meaning for us. Ernest Burgess and Anton Carlson, with their learning, willingness to dissent, and devotion to freedom, symbolize the best tradition of our University. May we always continue it. To preserve it is to make our contribution to the best that is in the American tradition.”

Flu vaccine free

AU students who desire fre^ vaccinations against influenza are urged to come to the Student Health Service as soon as possible. Influenza vaccine will be available at Student Health Service during the following hours: 8:45-11:30 a.m. and 1:15-4:30 p.m. Monday through Friday. Page 2

THE CHICAGO MAROON

January 8, 1954

Issued once weekly by the publisher, The Chicago Maroon, at the publication office, 5706 South University Avenue, Chicago 37, Illinois. Telephones: Editorial Office, Midway 3-0800, Ext. 1010; Business and Advertising Offices, Midway 3-0800, Ext. 1009. Distributed free of charge, and subscriptions by mail, $3 per year. Business Office hours: 1 to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday.

Arthur Brown Richard E. Ward editor-in-chief managing editor

Poles plan polka for Ida Noyes

Old Polish folk dances will be presented as the featured entertainment for a dance to be held tomorrow evening by the University Of Chicago Polish club. The exhibition will be presented by a special dance group. The dance will be open to the campus at a $1 admission charge and will begin at 8:30 p.m. in Ida Noyes. Gene Stevens and his orchestra will provide music for social dancing.

Dark Age here

Alpha Delta Phi will hold a medieval-type open house Saturday, January 16, after the basketball game with Illinois Tech. The open house will be held in the chapter house at 5747 University.

Medievial decorations will fill the house and an air of informality will prevail. The Dungeon Bar will serve refreshments, and Stu Clayton’s orchestra will provide music for dancing. Everyone is invited; those wearing armor will be especially welcomed.

furniture — wrought iron legs

lamps — gifts

radios — tv — appliances

JANUARY CLEARANCE SALE

Hermans

FACULTY AND 935 E 55th st.

NSA DISCOUNTS Open thurs. til 9

LOUIE’S BARBER SHOP

FOR PERSONALITY HAIR CI T w

^ EXPERT FOR CREW CUT "

o o

1110 E. 55th St., Chicago 15

o o

O LOUIS CORTEZ

♦ o

o . o

 

Lot bought; but not a lot for UC cars

The University of Chicago bought 60,000 square feet of parking lot this week. But before any beleaguered comm u tors start planning to patk their cars they had better be prepared for a long walk; it’s located on the half block at Monroe, Canal, and Clinton, slightly south and west of the

loop.

The University, however, is not operating the property directly. It had no sooner bought the property for $650,000, when it leased the lot to the R. G. Lydy Parking Co., a parking lot firm. Lydy has already taken possession.

Portraits by

LOUISE BARKER

Photographer

457 E. 57th St. BU 8-0876

Foreign tour data prepared

Students interested in the annual summer tours either to western Europe or around the world, sponsored by the National Students’ Association can now receive all necessary information. Descriptive literature and information will be distributed from Monday through Wednesday of next week in the corridors of Mandel and Cobb Halls between the hours

of 9:30 a.m. and 2:30 p.m.

An additional meeting will be held next Friday at 3:30 p.m. in the Reynolds Club Assembly Room, popularly known as the '‘fishbowl.” Information about passports, reseivations on student boats, accommodations and other details about the program will be discussed at this time.

Those who are interested in the tours but who will be unable to attend the meeting should contact Bob Marcus at MI 3-5604, or Pam Morton at Green House.

The average cost of the trip,

 = DARKROOM SUPPLIES - FLASH GUNS !

i CHEMICALS - PHOTO ALBUMS 1

E GADGET BAGS 1

1 CAMERAS I

I STOCK CLEARANCE I

£ Starting the 21st of January we will place on sale many | of the items that were crowded out of last quarter's sale, f 3 For one week and one week only you will have the oppor- E J tunity of stocking up on many items at greatly reduced S j prices. *

| UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO I

I BOOKSTORE |

I 5802 ELLIS

 

including transportation and accommodations, is presently estimated at $700.

An around the world tour starting in Honolulu and working eastward is also being offered for the first time.

WHERE THE U Of C MEETS TO EAT

How thelstars got started i| .fl^-R(i^6teli^

r AMERICA’S NEWEST, MOST COLORFUL DANCE BAND

Eddie Sauter and Bill Finegan, leaders of America's most excitinglydifferent dance band, met in 1939 as struggling young arrangers.

Ed had studied trumpet and drum at college, worked / up to arranging for I '

“name” bands; Bill \

bad studied in Paris, ' won a spot with Tommy Dorsey. After 13 years of pooling new ideas, they formed their own band. It clicked!

fc&^^tu^

I V£ TRIED MANY BRANDS, BUT I GET MOST PLEASURE FROM CAMELS YOU < WILL, TOOI’ J

f^Mi A^a

WITH MF,CAMELS CLICKED INSTANTLY THE FLAVOR'S MOW . I LIKE FT, THE MILDNESS JUST RIGMT.'

START SMOKING CAMELS YOURSELF! Smoke only Camels for 30 days and find out why Camels are first in mildness, flavor and popularity! See how much pure pleasure a cigarette can give you!

agree with more people xx.™. January 8, 1954

THE CHICAGO MAROON

Page 3

Kirk: "Unbought grace of life" is disappearing

Russell Kirk, author of “The Conservative Mind,” told a small audience in Social Sciences 122 last December 16, in a lecture sponsored by the Committee on Social Thought, “Without a natural aristocracy there is no nation.” Opening his

discussion with a quote from Edmund Burke’s “Reflections on the French Revolution

The unbought grace of life, the

cheap defense of nations, the nurse of manly sentiment and heroic enterprise is gone the age of chivalry is gone; that

of sophisters, economists and calculators has succeeded Learning will be cast into the mire and troaden under the

hooves of a swinish Kirk proceeded to eighteenth century to modern times.

multitude”— apply these observations

Grace from moral imagination

Kirk’s arguments revolved around the title phrase, “The Unbought Grace of Life.” This grace, he said, consists of “all those super-added ideas furnished from

^Disc

1367 E. 57th St

RECORDS

AND

HI - Fl

EQUIPMENT

International House Movie Program

Monday and Thursday Evenings of 8 p.m.

Monday, Jan. 11 — “THE BICYCLE THIEF” (Italian) Assembly Hall Admission 50c

Thursday, Jan. 14 — "THE ROOSEVELT STORY" (American)

East Lounge Admission 35c

£77te ^Mum PHOTOGRAPHERS

When you pause...make it count...have a Coke

DRINK

1171 EAST 55th STREET

MIDWAY 3-4433

©1953, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY

Ifl Afil MKTOHlii

“Cct." it a registered trade mark.

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY

Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Chicago, Inc.

the wardrobe of a moral imagination the spirit of nobility and the spirit of religion.”

Kirk, assistant professor of the history of western civilization at Michigan State College, continued, “The unbought grace of life must be nourished by men who have power, wealth and eminence.” Social progress and inheritance taxes in Great Britain have led to the decline of the landed gentry and their manor houses have destroyed the continuity of power, wealth and eminence and thus make the nourishment of the grace difficult, he said. When asked if the unbought grace of

'Dybbuk' folk play remarkably unified production

The Playwrights Theatre Club at 1560 N. La Salle is currently presenting Sol Ansky's Yiddish folk play, The Dybbuk in an English production. The production, pos^bly the best executed qnd certainly the best attended of Playwrights' career, closes Jan. 24.

The Dybbuk, based upon Chassidic folklore and told in the manner of an expanded folk tale, tells the

story of a student's meddling in the Kabala (a book of mysticism), arising out of an agreement bonded in friendship before his birth by his father and the father of the girl who is to be his bride by the agreement. He dies as his

life was incompatible with modern industrial and democratic society, Kirk replied, “I don’t know, I hope not.”

Challenged on our age

In the question period following the lecture a member of the audience arose and condemned Kirk for saying that the past was better than the present. He recalled the Holland of a century ago as his father had described it to him: “Little children were taught how to rob and steal. There was hardly a girl who wasn’t a mother before she got married. Whiskey was sold everywhere, even to six year old boys, and

mystic rites prove unsuccessful. His soul, as a dybbuk, enters the body of the girl. The resultant situations bring about a trial called by a dead man and finally the

union, in the souls dent.

To we

the “higher planes,” of of the girl and the stuwho benefit by the advance in scientific knowledge these situations in bare statements are, to say the least, unreal; but we must examine the nature of a folk tale and of a play based on folk lore. The Chassidic communities of feudal Russia were in forced isolation from the outside world. Within the limited frame of reference of these communities, knowledge was at the stage where mysticism was reality. Mysticism could serve to explain phenomena as nothing else they knew could. The legends on which The Dybbuk is based were real to the people and they told their stories with a belief that they were real.

The Dybbuk, therefore, must not be approached as a play of fantasy, neither must it be approached as symbolism through the meaning of fantasy. Inherent in the legends is a symbolism, but it is never more than the bond of the legend to the occurrences of day to day life. Nothing in The Dybbuk reveals that the characters have anything but complete faith in the mysticism that apparently shapes their destiny. The play must be presented in as real a manner as possible, for only then will the actual circumstances that shape these people’s lives become evident.

A

Byrne Piven’s direction satisfied these requirements to a

AC AS A Book Store

Cards — Contemporary and Traditional Best Prices Paid for Used Books

117 E. 55th St.

HY 3-9651

STUDENT

DISCOUNT CARDS

AVAILABLE

FREE

STUDENT GOV'T

OFFICE 302

REYNOLDS

CLUB

Good for Discounts at Stores

in UC Neighborhood

everybody drank so they didn’t have to look at the awful poverty they were living in Is this what you want us to return to? I say that what we’ve got now— even with Malenkov and the atom bomb—is better than anything we ever had before.”

Kirk replied, “Certain ages, of course, are better than others.” John U. Nef, chairman of the Committee on Social Thought, arose and said the problems raised in the question could not be answered in a single session. “This is the work of the Committee on Social Thought,” he said. “I thank you all for coming.”

great degree. In the climactic third act the incredible interplay of forces is presented in a manner that makes the entire society move before us. In the . second act, almost lulling calms make more vivid the storms that follow them. Music, movement, vocal dynamics are combined to produce the fullest theatrical effect.

Edward Asner’s Rabbi Azrael is a man who believes in the rites he performs and who makes the audience believe with him. Because he at no time seems a conjurer and because his reactions are always human his presence considerably bolsters the climax of the play Marvin Peissner, as Sender, the wealthy father of Leah, the girl, is always the rich Chassid. His matter of fact acceptance of the ways of the Lord makes the reality of the play indisputable.

Because of the isolation, these communities could see only the surface of reality, although they felt and were aware of the influence of the outside world upon them. Naturally they could only look to the means of communication, to the couriers that went from town to town for an understanding of this total reality. The ‘poijiap Apeau euieoaq ja Suassaui and, as the tale goes, is ‘the righteous and benevolent man” who “gathers up the threads” from “the hearts of all the world’s creatures.” In The Dybbuk it is the messenger who clarifies and relates the situations to (Chassidic) reality. Jon Jackson, in his portrayal, presents the proper conflict between participating force and critical observer.

Nevertheless, the production

and Home Towns

Study grants abroad open

The Institute of International Education has announced the availability of several scholarships and fellowships for study abroad beyond the Fulbright Program.

Fellowships are now available for graduate students for the year 1954-55 in the Netherlands, Switzerland, Sweden, Germany, France, Denmark, and Italy. In most cases

the deadlines for applying these grants are February March 1, 1954.

Some details about the

for and

programs and instructions for application are available in the Student Activities Office, Reynolds Club 202.

sometimes tends to introduce a mechanical symbolism alien to the play. Much of it is a symbolism of forces outside the world of the play. It is as if someone with an entirely different frame of reference noticed that his point of view could be inserted conveniently at certain places.Consequently the smooth development of the drama is impeded. This and an occasional tendency to make the play mystical and surreal mitigate the dramatic effect and cloud the motivations in the climax. The production becomes boring, for in these cases it interprets real situations as purely mystical phenomena, and therefore does not bring the audience into the grip of reality.

Alex? Horn, although for the most part convincing in his portrayal of Channon, the student, sometimes commits the mistake of surrealism. Channon studies the Kabala for a very real purpose, but too often Horn i$ merewhen Channon sees the real purly being a mystic. As a result, pose apparently defeated, Horn

does not react as deeply part requires.

In her portrayal of

•Joyce Hiller is too much

as the

Leah, at the

mercy of points of view alien to the play. Throughout the action she is without hope, a continuous picture of suffering without the strength to fight back, reacting to everything in the same way—her character does not develop. Although Leah goes through periods of joy and sorrow, resolution and doubt, Miss Hiller’s portrayal remains static.

These faults, nevertheless, are for the most part obscured by the realistic and powerful effect produced by the proper use of theatrical elements. Lighting, sound, staging, scenery, timing, dynamics, are used to produce a remarkably integrated production. This, combined with some of the best performances turned in by some of Playwright’s best actors provides a rewarding dramatic experience.

Daniel Queen Page 4

Calendar

Classified ads

Employed girl to share conveniently located apartment. DE 2-1995, weekdays, 9-5.

'Kimpton

Friday, Jan. 8

Hillel Fireside. Peretz Gordon, a student from Israel, and All Othman, Unlver For Sale

sity College lecturer, will discuss the situation. Hillel Founda Arab-Israeli

tlon at 8:30 p.m. The Fireside will be preceded by the Sabbath Service at

7:45 p.m.

Maple bed, spring and mattress; maple writing desk; front room and kitchen sets. Leave message for Bill Cohen, MI 3-0800, ext. 1072.

Room for rent. Private washroom. Meals if desired. Hablamos espanol, on parle francais, fala Portugese, s p r e c he n deutsch? FA 4-7358.

Furnished room, light, comfortable, in apartment of discreet young couple. Breakfast privileges. $8. week. FA 4-5221.

British staff member and two allegedly well-behaved teen-agers require home or housing very near Lab school from mid January to summer. Robinson, Chicago Midway Labs, ext. 2572.

Saturday, Jan. 9

The UC Polish Club will hold a dance in Ida Noyes at 8:30 p.m. Admission

1947 Chevrolet 2-door sedan, heater, radio. Call W. F. Stlnespring, BU 8-8300, working hours; FA 4-2385, otherwise.

Room for male. First floor, 15 minutes walk from university. MI 3-4713 after 6 p.m.

Services

Reynold's Club chair—just please take it away. MI 3-5931 around six.

Sunday, Jan. 10

Rockefeller Chapel Service at 11 a m. The Reverend Daniel D. Williams will apeak on "Conflict and Reconciliation.”

Calvert Club. Supper at 6 p.m., served for 65 cents, will be followed by an Open House at 7:30 p.m.

Monday, Jan. 11

Hillel Foundation. Hug Ivri will meet at 12:30 p.m. The Folk Dance Group will meet at 3:30 p.m.

The UC Astronomical Society will meet An Ryerson 352 at 8 p.m. Carl Sagan Will present "A Half Serious Hypothesis on the Mechanism of Creation.”

Tuesday, Jan. 12

^Emperor Jones," a motion picture, will be presented by the Doc Film Group In Social Sciences 122 at 7:15 and 9:30 p.m. Admission 50 cents.

Wednesday, Jan. 13

The International House Discussion

Group will meet in the East Lounge of International House at 8 p.m. The topic this week will be “The British Commonwealth Today."

The Sailing Club will hold Its first meeting of the year In Ida Noyes at 7:30 p.m. Movies will be shown.

1952 Consul car of Ford production made In England, like new, original mileage, one owner. See Herman at 8958 S. Ashland Avenue from 9 a.m. till 9 p.m.

5-Room apartment to share with graduate student, $25 month. Permissive environent. FA 4-0525, 6347 Maryland.

Personals

X

Private Mailing' Cards

Smartly styled, inexpensive personal postal cards. Samples on request. The MAIL-BOX, Dept. Six, 3 14 Newell, Barberton,

* Ohio

x

k

x

:

For Rent

Bill Pozen and Art Solomon have moved to new quarters at 5833 Dorchester Avenue.

Mathematics special instruction to fit your needs. You choose the math to be covered; we arrange program to fit your needs, whether for review or refresher, preparatory to an exam, introduction, improvement of background, modern outlook, applications. For individual or group. Sessions conducted at our office or location of your choice. Albert Soglin and Associates. 180 West Washington Street, Chicago 2. Telephone ST 2-6727.

(from page 1) standards and living requirements of those who live here.”

The fourth point the Chancellor made was that the University is dedicated to the creation and maintenance of a community on an unsegregated, inter-racial basis, in which people will be able to live in happiness, tranquility, and fellowship with others of similar tastes and standards.

Your typing done reasonably by Mrs. Pannabecker, KE 6-8689 or see Pannabecker, Zoology 31-A.

Female college graduate to share apartment with same. Student or staff member. PL 2-3800, apt. 1003, evenings or weekends, MO 6-3900, ext. 8130 days.

Wanted

Expert computing. See attendant. Statistics Laboratory, Haskell 306, ext. 3427.

Portraits specialty; any other photography. Low cost. High quality. Give Valentine portraits. Joe Wolf, ES 5-1615,

Especially fof students. Attractive furnished 1^ and 2^ room apartments, 2 blocks from U of C. Newly decorated, linens, daily maid service, reasonable rent. 6107 Dorchester, PL 2-9641.

Student male wants room in exchange Spanish tutoring and/or baby sitting. Call Mr. Alda, ext. 2731.

You can't put the bite on Bernie . on our Hamburgers

but you can

Newly decorated rooms and apartments, Pearl Beach Hotel, 5540 S. Cornell. Reasonable rates, Ideal location. BU 8-9607.

Secretary, $240 mo., social security, 37^ hour work week, 3-week vacation, airconditioned building. Midwest Inter Library Center. 5721 Cottage Grove, MU 4-4545.

UNIVERSITY TAP AND LIQUOR

1133 E. 55th

Phone Midway 3-0524

RECORDS

Eye Examinations

SAVE UP TO 50%

10" LP

12" LP

78 RPM

45 RPM 79c $1.89

.8 for $1.00

Visual Training

Dr. Kurt Rosenbaum

optometrist

ON USED BOOKS

Cash for books

more in trade

You are welcome to browse

New catalogue available

Hermans

935 E. 55th St

1132 E. 55th Street

HYde Park 3-8372

WILCOX AND FOLLETT CO

1247 S. Wabash

HA 7-2840

IS THE LARGEST SELLING CIGARETTE IN AMERICA'S COLLEGES by a 1953 survey audit of actual sales in more than 800 college co-ops and campus stores from coast to coast. Yes, for the fifth straight year Chesterfield is the college favorite.

CHESTERFIELD IS THE ONLY CIGARETTE EVER TO GIVE YOU PROOF OF HIGHEST QUALITY-LOW NICOTINE

Change to Chesterfield today — get smoking pleasure all the way I

for the arm straight year CHESTERFIELD

ir

XAj OOi

i BBim W

"At the colleges and wherever we play, I find more and more young men and women going for Chesterfield.”

CHESTERFIELD

YOUNG AMERICA GOES

CHESTERFIELD

