pian

The revised College programs, as set forth in the new College “Announcements,” officially released today, include four-year joint degrees with the humanities, biological sciences and physical sciences divisions, special arrangements with the social science division and the professional schools, and a four-year “General Studies” AB.

Each of the joint degrees are further subdivided by department, with very specific requirements in each one. Generally spea King, me humanities and biological sciences degrees retain from eight to 10 College comprehensives, while physical science degrees include six specialized courses which will oegin in the first year. Students who enter before graduation from high scnool will expect to spend five years in securing their bachelor’s degree. The general education portion of the degree requirements may be shortened by placement tests.

For the social sciences division, the law school, and the business school, three years of general education plus one year of work in the division or school lead to a B.A. The general education requirements are again subject to revision by placement test.

The General Studies program is substantially the same as the present College, with the addition of a fourth year of tutorial study. The fourth year of the General Studies plans is to be divided approximately equally among divisional courses, the writing of a bachelor’s essay, and independent work, the details to be arranged his tutor.

d

Sent in cooperation with

All the programs leading to a AB are said to provide “at least the equivalent of a ‘major’ as defined in most colleges.” Any one of them may bq combined with preparation for teaching.

According to the Announcements, the new programs give “a solution of a problem which has increasingly vexed American higher education — how to combine a common liberal training in the major arts and sciences with the development of individual powers and knowledge in such a way as to make each of these elements in a complete education reinforce and illuminate the Other while retaining its own integrity and importance.”

Tuition will remain the same.

Average requirements for a Bachelor’s degree for a high school graduate!

College (BA) — 1. a maximum of 12 comprehensive examinations,

2. one year of tutorial studies under a toutor assigned by the college staff, 3. a Bachelor’s essay.

Humanities (BA) — First and second years: seven or eight College comprehensives.

Third and fourth years: six to 12 courses in the major department, and three to nine electives (electives may include one or two College courses).

Biological Sciences (BS) — First year: Natural Sciences 1, Humanities, Social Science, English.

see "BA," page 5.

Four Student Services

United in New Center

Student Government, acting on the recommendation of its student needs committee, has consolidated in the new Student Government Service Center four previously separate student services: the Book Exchange Ticket Agency, Loan Service, and Mimeo Service. Harry Pashner, present manager of the Cen. University of Chicago, April 2, 1954 4^^ 31

No football at UC, athletic head says

ter, which is located in the Reynolds’ Club basement, explained, the consolidation as an attempt to cut the excessive expenses of maintenance

and operation of four separate services, and to increase their efficiency through centralized operation.

The nature of the services, however, will be essentially what it has been in the past, and no attempt, will be made to increase the functions of these student services.

by Paul A. Hoffman

The Book Exchange will confor both on-campus events sponsored by student organizations, and theatre and concert attractions in the Loop. There is a 15 cent fee per ticket above the regular price for all off-campus events, to cover the costs of handling and transportation.

The Loan Service, operating on capital provided by Student Government, continues to lend to students a maximum of $10 at a fee of 5 cents for the first $5,

Football will not return to campus next year!

tinue to sell students’ books at

and 10 cents for larger amounts.

Loans may be obtained in the

Efforts to resurrect the sport on an intra-mural basis have failed, T. Nelson Metcalf, director of athletics, informed the MAROON last month. “There is no possibility of intra-mural football this fall. There are obviously not enough students interested to have such a program,” he said.

Last October a six-man student committee headed by Aaron Geffner prepared a program tor intra-mural footwall which would have started this autumn. The other members of

the committee are Joe Howard, Jun Pencil, Sherrard Gray, Lew Walters, and George Athanson. Had the intra-mural program proven successful, several intercollegiate games would have been scheduled in 1955 and a full program the following year. Acceptance of this program by the athletic department was contingent on the presentation of the names ol 100 students willing to participate in the program.

No budget for football

However, the list of students was never presented to the athletic department, and the athletic budget for 1954 55 was compiled in December without provisions for intra-mural football. Although ‘he Board of Trustees has not yet voted the budget, a special recommendation would be required for the inclusion of money for football.

Metcalf said that “the students were discouraged by the administration, which could not make a definite commitment on intercollegiate football.” Dean of Students Robert M. Strozier said that any decision on football would have to be recommended by the athletic department.

'There are not enough boys'

Sources in the administration building said that Metcalf himself was unwilling to plunge into an intra-mural program unless he were certain that inter-collegiate competition would follow.

Metcalf denied that this was his position, and stated that the difficulty with establishing an intramural program was the fact that “there are not enough boys capable of playing.”

'New degrees will attract players'

He has not, however, surrendered hope of restoring football to the campus scene. “The new plan of college degrees will attract a large enough undergraduate body of students who want and are qualified to play football,” he said.

The same sentiments were

echoed by Howard T. Mort, secretary of the Alumni Association. “I think Kimpton and the whole administration would be pleased to see 100 guys coming out next fall to play intra-mural football,” he told the MAROON.

Alumni would back any efforts

Mort said the alumni would back any efforts to restore a football program at the university. But he said there is “no place for the alumni to enter the picture at the moment. There could be quite a little backing by alumni if there were a possibility of restoring football.”

He believes that the great danger is trying to push too far too fast. “The alumni would want to rejoin the Big Ten — and that’s asinine!” he. asserted.

Students must be self-sacrificing

The students who would put any program of football into effect would have to be self-sacrifjcsee "No football," page 10

Proclaim

prices set by the sellers. The Exchange deducts from this price only a small commission enabling it to cover expenses. Like all the services, the Book Exchange is a non-profit organization.

The Ticket Agency sells tickets

Reynolds Club basement.

The Center also operates a mimeo service which promises to fill any student order, whatever its nature and difficulty. Rates vary with the kind of paper used

see “Service," page 4

Future patrons of the Student Government Book Exchange will probably not get so much attention, but when Laurel Cohn browsed through on the first day of the quarter, Clive Gray, SG president, was right on hand ta help her make her selection.

Freedom Week

by Karl Rodman

A scroll calling upon all students to reaffirm their faith in the Bill of Rights, a play presented by the cast of “The World of Sholem Aleichem,” movies, forums and othqr events will highlight the National Academic Freedom Week, to be held on this campus a week from Sunday, April 11 to 17.

Academic Freedom Week was originally proclaimed by the Illinois region of the National Student Association last November and was then made nation wide by the executive committee of NS A last December. Since then students throughout the country have been w

GONE ARE THE DAYS •. . when the University of Chicago could boast a winning football team—or any team, for that matter. The picture above shows the last great Maroon eleven in action. In this 1933 contest between the Maroons (in white jerseys) and their arch-rivals from the University of Wisconsin, Jay Burwanger, the last Maroon All-American, is plung>g through the Badger defense. The crowd in the background fills th* stadium at Madison.

preparing activities throughout the country with Academic Freedom Weeks being held at Illinois, Roosevelt College, CCNY, Sarah Lawrence and other NSA schools.

Here at Chicago the week has received official approval from Student Government and is being carried out by a campus-wide group, consisting of representatives from more than 30 student organizations and residence units.

According to Karl Rodman,

chairman of this group, the purpose of the week is to promote thought and discussion on the issues of free inquiry and education, and to “arouse awareness of the many recent infringements both on the rights of students and their professors. Rodman continued, “there is no prepared position or solution which students are asked to accept in order to participate in the activities of the week. It is hoped that all students, holding many different opinions, will use this chance to present their own ideas to the campus and

to become better acquainted with those of their fellow students.”

Planning for the week on this campus began last February when representatives of all interested campus organizations were invited to a meeting where the first tentative plans were worked out. At this and at subsequent meetings the following groups were among those represented* SG, Young Friends, Young Lt> therans, Channing Club, Oriented tion Board, Inter-Club Council, Mortarboard, ZBT, Communica*

Me "Ffoodom," peg* f THE CHICAGO MAROON

April 2, 1954

Page 2

Miller talks on psychoanalytic theory:

Mc Carthy, foreign policy

'Freud-dethroned Queen Victoria'

“On Sigmund Freud’s eightieth birthday (1936), Time magazine said, ‘Freud, more than any other person of the time, perhaps with the exception of Hitler, will be remembered 500 J ears hence; for he, without firing a shot, succeeded in dethroning Queen Victoria’.” So ames Miller, chairman of the department of psychology, concluded his talk on the subject “What is Psychoanalysis?”, first in the series of eight William Ellery Channing lectures now being presented on successive Tuesday evenings at 8 p.m.

An overflow crowd filled Breasted Hall for the beginning

of the fourth consecutive year’s series of lectures on “liberal

religious concerns.” This year’s general topic is “Psychoanalysis and Everyday Life.”

Miller spoke about the nature ©f psychoanalysis in a concise description of its historical development, and then continued with an explanation of its outstanding principles as they stand today. When he finished an enthusiastic audience asked questions for another hour.

“Psychoanalysis is concerned with the theory of inner motivation and structure of the human mind and personality,” said Miller. “It arose as such in a background of nineteenth-century thought on organ-principles and interest in hypnotism.” But, ne continued, Sigmund Freud first started thinking about psychoanalysis in connection with a search among his medical patients

for the pschological reasons for certain symptoms.

Early traumas

Freud found that early traumas were responsible for many symptoms in his patients and from this semi-empirical basis, formulated his famous postulate that “the forces that motivate human conduct are unconscious and at first glance irrational.” Explaining this “irrationality,” said Miller, is the job of psychoanalysis.

According to Freud’s formulation of psychological theory, as Miller described it, forgotten events can be influential in later behavior even though they remain outside awareness. The unconscious represses unpleasant and advances pleasant memories, but all memories can be influential in determining behavior. What determines the pleasantness or

Fulbright Act offers prizes, provides year trips abroad

unpleasantness of memories are biological (sexual, libidinal) drives in every individual.

Each child is faced with the necessity of achieving satisfactory sexual attitudes toward its parents. The fixation or arrest of the normal pattern of sexual organizational development is the source of neuroses.

Freud also believed in a universal make-up of the mind com-posed of the id (a reservoir of drives and experience), the superego (“conscious”), and the ego or self (composed of two parts, one of which is conscious). Freud believed that his analysis of biological drives would hold as an explanation of the behavior of all men.

Freud developed treatments

Miller stated the Freud also developed many of the therapeutic treatments and methods, as well as theory of psychoanalysis; free association to determine the source of repressions, and the relationship between the analyst and his patient.

After his examination of Freudian theory, Miller spoke briefly on later additions to, modifica Lectureships and research awards are being offered under the Fulbright Act for university lecturing and research at post-doctorial level i nthe Far East and Africa. Applicants for lectureships are expected to have at least one year of college or university teaching experience in the US or abroad. Candidates for research awards must possess a doctorial degree from

a recognized institution of higher learning in the US or abroad at the time of application, or have recognized standing in their respective professions.

Fulbright awards are made in the host country’s currency. They usually include round trip transportation for the grantee; a costof-living allowance, which is adjustable for maintenance of up to four accompanying dependents; and a small supplemental allowresearch councils committee on international exchange of persons,' 2101 Constitution Avenue, Washington 25, DC. The deadline for consideration of applications is April 15, 1954.

Awards may be granted for lecturing and advanced research work in Australia, Burma, Ceylon, India, New Zealand, Philippines, Thailand, and Union of South Africa.

tions of, and rivals to Freud’s system of constructs, including Jung’s theory of the collective consciousness, Adler’s substitution of the power drive (“a universal desire to be one up”) for completely sexual motivations, and Horney’s belief in the influence of cultural factors on behavior.

Miller defended much of the Freudian and neo - Freudian theory, which has apparently been attacked as unsubstantiated guesswork, by comparing it to the hypotheses of other sciences. He said that, just as in physics and chemistry, the test of these theories is whether or not they fit the facts as we know them.

ance for books, travel, or equipment purchasable abroad. Ordinarily awards are made for the full academic year for one country only.

Applications and additional information may be obtained from the conference board of associated

Collegians Bowled Over—Say "Arrow GABANARO Fits Perfectly’9

Sports Shirts Feature Exact

Collar Sizes and Sleeve Lengths

HOW’D YOU LIKE TO,

earn $5000

a year

be an officer in the air force...

get an exciting head start in jet aviation.••

AND

belong

to a great flying team?

(Insert name and rank of Selection Team head) and Aviation Cadet Selection Team (insert no. of team) are coming to (insert name of city) to show you how. They’ll be here in (insert no. of days). Meet them at (insert address of local residence) during their stay.

topic of Mc Williams talk

Carey Mc Williams, editorial director of “The Nation,” a weekly magazine, will speak in Social Sciences 122, Thursday at 8 p.m. on “Mc Carthyism and Our Foreign Policy.” The talk is sponsored by the Faculty-Graduate Committee for Peace a volunteer organization of faculty members and graduate

students.

Mc Williams, author of numerous books on civil liberties, discrimination, and other social problems, has also been engaged for many years as a public administrator and lawyer.

Describing the Mc Carthy wing as "deliberately, provocatively, critical of our allies and the United Nations because both occa Shuster to give Walgreen talks

George N. Shuster, president of Hunter College and an authority on international education, will give six lectures on “The Cultural Relations Program of the United States” this month under the sponsorship of the Charles R. Walgreen Foundation.

Scheduled for Monday, 4:30 p.m., in Judd 126, the first talk will cover “Informal Diplomacy and Cultural Relations.”

Later talks will be on “The Origins of the Cultural Relations Program,” Wednesday; “Wartime Information and Cultural Relations,” Friday, April 9; “Occupatio and Education,” April 12; "International Cultural Cooperation,” April 14, and “Our Cultural Relations Program—a Resume,” April 16.

During his long career in education, Shuster has been a member of the general advisory commission of the State Department’s cultural affairs division, a delegate to the United Nations Economic, Scientific, and Cultural Organization conference in Paris in 1946, and an advisor at the Conference on International Education in London in 1946.

Admission to the lectures, which are all scheduled to begin at 4:30 p.m., is free.

sionally force us to listen to world opinion,” Mc Williams also be* lieves that Senator Mc Carthy "is engaged in a desperate race to capture power before the tensions of the cold war relax,” but that “Mc Carthy highlights a division (in the Republican Party) which would still exist if Joe were to drop dead.”

Give language exams

Language reading exams are being given this quarter in French, April 26; German, May 3; and Spanish, May 10. Registration for the exams closes April 12 for French, April 19 for German and April 26 for Spanish and all others.

Gives special exams for teaching aspirants

Four to five hundred Chicago high school seniors aiming for a teaching career in the city’s school system will be given scholarship and special placement exams here Tuesday. The testing is part of a program announced in January which was designed by the UC Committee on Teacher Preparation, in co-operation with the Superintendent of Schools, Thaddeus J. Lubera.

F. Champion Ward, chairman of the UC committee, explained that under this program, which the University plans to open to 150 aspirants next Fall, students may complete their courses in education during the last two years of their college work, receive their Bachelor’s degree and secure “temporary” teaching certificates while preparing for their master’s degrees.

fits you for a life of ease Rohanarn” • ^ your exact collar k.

All Un Ua Uallal U • your exact sleeve length

Try on on Arrow Gabanoro and see how comfortable you can get—how smart-looking, too. Gabanaro's the trimmer, neater-fitting sports shirt—with the free 'n' easy Arafold collar that looks and feels great . . worn open, closed, with or without a tie. Tell us your exact collar size, your exact sleeve length—and let us fit you to an Arrow Gabanaro from our huge selection of colors. 

According to college men, Arrow “Gabanaro” is the best-fitting sports shirt on this and every campus — with built-in comfort neater, smarter lines. “Gabanaro” features a wide range of colors in washable rayon gabardine.

^/ITIOW

 TRADE ® MARK — SHIRTS • TIM • UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTSWEAR —

.Chicago - Evanston - Oak Park - Gary - Joliet - Alton———* □ * April X 1954

THE CHICAGO MAROON

Page 3

Strozier states UC

policy on group lists

University policy in turning over membership lists of student organizations to investigating agencies has been clarified by Dean of Students Robert M. Strozier in an interview with the MAROON.

Strozier stated the following:

1) the university does not release membership lists of student organizations to 

gators except when such lists are subpoenaed;

21 the university will release factual information (including membership in organization, if verified) about any individual student to a properly qualified investigator;

3) the university keeps on file only membership lists for the current year — lists from former years are destroyed.

Strozier explained that investi USAF Aviation Cadet program is available to UC’ers

Information concerning the US Air Force Aviation Cadet program will be available to all interested University of Chicago students. This announcement from the Aviation Cadet selection team from O’Hare International Airport, Park Ridge, Illinois, comes in advance of the team's actual visit which will be Wednesday and Thursday. On these days members of the team will be in the Reynolds Club from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m., answering questions and counselling interested students about the Cadet program.

“At the present time the Air Force needs both pilots and aircraft observers,” said Captain Maurice G. Steele, the team's commander. “We will be glad to talk with anyone about these training programs. We feel that pilot and aircraft observer training offers a young man a great opportunity to gain wide experience during his military service.”

When you pause ...make it count... have a Coke

•OTH.ro UNOU AUTHORITY Of THf COCA-COCA COMPANY Y

The Coca-Cola Bat Umf Company of Chicago, Inc.

gators for the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Office of Naval Intelligence, and similar organizations were considered qualified. Investigators for congressional committees have not approached him for information for over a year, Strozier stated.

At the time that many government employees were being investigated, the dean of students office was deluged with requests for information about the hundreds of UC graduates in government service. Since that time the investigations have decreased, until at present only one or two investigators a month visit the dean’s office.

Bill Hillman, SU prexy, gives program

calls new council 'most competent group'

by Robert Quinn “The state of the Union is great,” said William Hillman, newly elected president of Student Union in a post-election evaluation of Student Union policy last Wednesday.

Hillman, elected for a one-year term, took over former president Bruce Larkin’s presidential chair Monday. When Hillman was elected at the March 11 meeting of the Board, a full slate of other officers was also named: Joli Lasker, vicepresident; Dale Levy, secretary; Maurice Mandel, treasurer; and Jan Metros, chairman of the publicity department.

“This year’s group of SU department heads is the all-around most competent group I have seen during my three years with SU,” stated Hillman. An amendment is currently pending to add a new department to SU this quarter, the planning department, according to those favoring this amendment it is designed to feel the pulse of student opinion and to enable SU to gear its activities

more closely to student likes and dislikes.

“In the past,” said Hillman, “SU presidents have had to choose between either spending most of their time building up good will around campus for SU or concentrating upon improving the internal structure and functions of the organization. While inclined toward the latter activity, it’s my hope to achieve an effective syn New IFC Prexy says group unhappy with Michigan Plan

George Stone of the Psi Upsilon Fraternity, the newly elected president of the Inter Fraternity Council had the following things to say about the future plans and ideas of the IF Council.

The IF Sing, which is scheduled for June 5, is now being planned.

Pledges of all fraternities are in the midst of planning a dance. This dance is scheduled for May 7. It will be an all campus dance if the proper facilities are available, if not it will be an all fraternity dance.

Regarding the letter from Robert M. Strozier, dean of students, to the IF Council on the Michigan Plan, Stone stated, "This last letter clarifies the University’s position on the Michigan Plan. Although we are not satisfied with the plan, we will go along with it. We believe that the University Administration, not Student Government should be the authority which grants recognition to fraternities.”

thesis of both activities. In this work the new planning committee will play a key role. With a good working knowledge of what will appeal to both students and faculty, SU will be able to sponsor more effectively running and popular activities and build up our prestige at the same time.” Removing his gavel from its blue felt wrapping and venturing some presidential predictions concerning SU activities for the coming year. Hillman said, “It’s dif“What's Drinking? A Mere Pause From Thinking”

Jimmy 9s

1172 E. 55

EUROPE— NORTH AFRICA Summer Tour

June 30 - August 31

England, France, Spain, Morocco, Algeria, Italy, Switzerland, Germany

Conducted by

PROF. E. BOURBOUSSON

63-day trip from New York to New York $1220 dormitory $1260 tourist

Write for information to

Dr. E. Bourbousson

Oregon State College Corvallis, Oregon

Alumni newsmen

to meet UC’ers

An informal bull-session with four UC alumni now working on Chicago newspapers will be open to 20 students interested in entering the news field on Tuesday, April 13, at 4:30 p.m^ in the Alumni House lounge.

Leon Stoltz, chief editorial writer of the Chicago Tribune^ Richard Philbrick, Tribune staff member, Helen Wells, Sun Times women’s editor, and Emmett Dedmon, Sun-Times staffer, will answer questions and give advice to the tyro newsmen and women.

Free tickets are available at the alumni house, 5733 University, and will be given to the first 20 who apply.

Stoltz and Dedmon, both veteran newsmen, will concentrate on the internal problems of newspaper work, while Philbrick will deal with the problems of young journalists trying to enter the field, and Miss Wells will answer questions on “women in journalism.”

This marks the resumption of

ficult to predict our future plans with any accuracy. Most of the initiative will be taken by the various committees, where functional plans for the activities will be worked out, the dance department working out C-dance plans, for instance, and the Reynold’s Club Committee planning the Reynold’s club cultural activities. With these working plans in hand the executive committee of eleven members, including the department heads and the new officers, will be able to consider the plans and give the go-ahead signal to the various departments. It’s my job, along with the vice-president and the other officers to co-ordinate the activities of the various committees and get them over the countless snags SU runs into.”

Hillman felt, however, that it was safe to forecast at least two C-Dances each quarter, Ida Noyes concerts, another Night of Sin, Outing Club safaris, card tournaments, and the usual deluge of

International House Movie Program

East Lounge, Monday and Thursday Evenings at 7:00 P.M. and 9:00 P.M.

Admission 35c

Monday, April 5 — THE ROAD TO HEAVEN (Swedish)

Thursday, April 8 — A BELL FOR ADANO (American)

ACASA Book Store GOOD USED BACKGROUND BOOKS Best prices paid for Scholarly used Books Guaranteed typewriter repair service

1117 E. 55th St

last year by the student-alumni committee of the University of Chicago Alumni Association. The sessions were begun to give UC students an opportunity to meet and talk informally with alumni working in non-academic fields they planned to enter after graduation.

the vocational discussions begun

Black honored

Hugo L. Black, associate justice of the United States Supreme Court, received an honorary LLD degree at the winter UC convocation.

SU activities. The format of the SU FORECAST, the publication of which will be extended into next year, will undergo an increase in size, the number of pages remaining the same but the size of each page being increased to a size slightly smaller than that of the MAROON page. The Student -Faculty Forum which met on Wednesdays in the Reynold’s Club during the last quarter will be either greatly revamped or dropped from the roster of SU activities. The waning student interest in these forums which became evident toward the end of last quarter has left SU with two alternatives: SU may either begin an intensive publicity campaign or call in off campus speakers to give the forums added interest.

Other projects over the KU horizon are the opening of Ida Noyes on Sunday nights, the organization of a Carnival Night at the field house, and the possible reviving of the one-popular Noyes Box dances.

“Plans for next year’s Wash see ''Hillman,” page 5

HY 3-9651 Issued once weekly by the publisher. The Chicogo Maroon, ot the publication office, 5706 South University Avenue, Chicogo 37, Illinois. Telephones: Editorial Office, Midway 3-0800, Ext. 1010; Business and Advertising Offices, Midway 3-0800, Ext. 1009. Distributed free of charge, and subscriptions by moil, $3 per year. Business Office hours: 1 to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday.

Arthur Brown editor-in-chief

Letters...

Lecture fanciful

Mr. William Hinton’s account of the Chinese Communists, as reported In last week’s MAROON, surpasses in boastfulness and falsity anything I have read in the Chinese Communist press itself. The lecturer not only painted a most fanciful picture of Communist China; but in also used such words as “education” and “freedom” in senses that have one meaning in all Communist countries tout have an entirely different meaning outside of them. If six years of stay in China have made Mr. Hinton no wiser as an agronomist, they have at least increased his power of demagoguery. Let m* be specific in my charges.

To begin with, Mr. Hinton hasn t a leg to stand on when he claims that the amount of land under cultivation in China can be doubled and that there Is no need of fear of over-population and lack of food. It is all right for the Communists to make such wild claims mi order to justify their action in exporting grain when there is famine at home, and to boost the morale of the masses by promising something that cannot be accomplished. But the claims have no scientific value because they are contradictory to the findings of all scientists, Chinese as well as American. A glance at the writings of Professors G B. Cressey, J. L. Buck, and G. F. Winfield would tell Mr. Hinton more about China than the propaganda of Mao Tsetung.

Mr. Hinton’s statement that Chinese laborers work eight hours a day and Six days a week finds no support in official Communist reports, which often give a less pleasant picture. In the Ching River Project, for instance, large amount of forced labor was apparently used and many workers were said to have toiled “enthusiastically” in waistdeep water or heavy rain for as long as twenty to thirty hours in a stretch. Nor are the working conditions better In other public projects. The Peking regime, like the Kremlin in the early thirty’s, is bent on forcing the pace of industrialization despite an acute shortage of, among other things, capital. Consequently labor is “consumed” in lieu of capital wherever possible. This is to say that all modern technique is

applied towards the utmost exploitawage scale,

tion of labor, eg. incentive high production quota, movements, forced labor, Mr. Hinton deny the use of ©ds in the new workers’ that is Red China?

When Mr. Hinton speaks

Stakhanov etc. Would such meth“paradise”

of “education,” I presume that he has conveniently overlooked the difference between “education” and “indoctrination.” That the Communists the world over attach great importance to indoctrination classes and meetings, is not to be denied. For indoctrination purpose the Communists are always willing to alter the working schedules. But whether the indoctrination courses are “education” and w’hether they can find enthusiastic responses in the students I must leave to the reader to decide.

Mr. Hinton is correct in saying that there are many jobs waiting for each graduate. Jobs are plentiful because labor is cheap in terms of other factors of production and is “consumed” whereever possible. But the reader must not get a wrong idea of what employment means in a Communist country. Except in the case of the Party proteges, a man does not choose a job: he is assigned one and has to be happy with it. The job need not have anything to do with his training and often does not pay enough for his living. But a man “in

King Farouk Left His Harem! to procure a copy of SHAFT'S zippy "Indoor Fun" Issue! Great Humor! Stories! Whimsy!

Screens out irritants but

SHAFT COLLEGE HUMOR

not flavor! MAGAZINE!

Get one today at U of C Bookstore! On Campus!

COCKTAIL HOUR

6 - 7 P.M. DAILY

Ml 3-0524

1131-33 E. 55th

featuring

Ballantine Ale

and Beer

Richard E. Ward managing editor

the service of the people” is not supposed to worry about his own problems. If he does, there must be something

wrong with his thought; and no has a more terrifying connotation unorthodoxy in thought. The process of “brain washing” and an to the fringe of Siberia, where a

word than long exile man

can “learn anew” at his ease, are by no means remote possibilities in cases involving the Question of thought. In saying this, I don’t merely repeat a commonplace; I have in mind actual cases which are known throughout Communist China, and which are presumably known also to Mr. Hinton if he

did not suffer from some seeing and hearing when China.

The village councils and elections spoken of by Mr. farces which no one in his can believe. In China as in

debility in he was in

democratic Hinton are right mind other Communist countries, things are run on a “voluntary” basis. Political defendants “voluntarily” confess to crimes which they did not commit. Workers “voluntarily” vote for pay cut in the interest of national economy. Peasants “voluntarily” elect the candidate designated by the Party. Life is indeed simple if one could believe with Mr. Hinton that democracy works through the invisible hand of a monolithic party!

It is true that there is no conscription in Red China. In fact, there are often more volunteers for the army than can be accepted. The reason for this phenomenon is simply that all jobs and livelihood are controlled by the government. By holding down income and employment the government can create a situation in which many people are faced with unemployment and starvation. At such a time enlisting in the army is a good way out for those suffering from hunger. The army pays fair, gives the men many privileges, and always holds the “enlistment contest” with great fanfare. Consequently over-subscription to the armed forces is a common event in Red China. It testifies to the high efficiency of the Communist apparatus, but it is also a sign of the extreme poverty of the people

and a sign of the complete lack tical and economic freedom country.

A very Important aspect of Red China is not mentioned

of poliin the

life in by Mr.

Hinton. That is, the mass executions enforced by the Party in the last four years. The American Assistant Secretary of State, Mr. Walter Robertson, recently put the figure of such executions at fifteen million. The figure is shockingly high, yet is probably not an overestimate. The Peking regime has never taken the trouble to keep the execution of “bandits” and “reactionaries” a secret. With mass murder being committed at this rate, very soon there will be neither opposition nor over-population in China. It is only when such a day comes, but not before then, that some of Mr. Hinton’s claims will become true.

Yi Chu Wong

Rights ignored

Recent articles in your paper on the so-called “Michigan Plan” and other aspects of the Student Code have led me to a perusal of that document. As you know, there is adjoining the Code a section known as the “Student Bill of Rights.” And here I found a subject which, I think, deserves more careful consideration than it has yet received.

This Bill of Rights is a comprehensive list applying to University students the same philosophy of natural rights that we find in the writings of Locke, Jefferson, et al. This is all well and good as far as it goes. Unfortunately, however, the drafters of these rights, with the best of intentions, made the same mistake as their illustrious predecessors. They omitted the most important rights of all.

Were I to draft a bill of rights for students at this University, it would include the following:

1) The right to sit by the shores of Lake Michigan and Contemplate.

2) The right to lie on the green grass of the Midway, of a Springtime, and look at the sky.

3) The right to walk about the quadrangles in the rain, in no particular direction.

4) The right to communicate with the creatures in Botany Pond, undisturbed by outside pressures.

5) The right to see beyond the gray, gothic walls, back anck ahead in time and timelessness.

These rights are essential to students at a great university if they are to be men in the truest sense, rather than mere social animals.

Victor J. Fuld

Urges moderation

I have read Mr. Dadrian’s interesting letter to the editor entitled “Originality Stifled” in the March 12 issue of the MAROON. I am afraid that he has devoted more attention to a wish for more “intensive and rational study of ideas” than to an argument concerning existing university life. Even if intensive and rational study of ideas does not seem to be entirely consistent with what has been termed “rah-rah boys’’ or perhaps more fairly, “the spirit for group conformity,” on what grounds would a person choose either? This is a question which all are confronted with at one time or another.

Is it really true that being “relaxed, well-balanced, and wholesome” is incongruent with “excellence in learning’’? It appears to me that excellence in learning is not only an understanding of expressed ideas but also an understanding of the people in which they are concerned. I would suggest that one does not come upon an understanding of people completely through books. Pure scholarship, even at the University of Chicago, is not merely a grade report of superior standing. One should not be chiefly interested in personal glory arising either from irrational accumulation of knowledge or irrational group conformity. Excellence in learning is personal development.

Let us as University of Chicago students neither hang from trees waving banners nor hang from trees waving books. I trust I make myself clear.

Peter Clarke

Democracy suppressed

Mc Carthyism in the domestic affairs of our country is being repudiated by more and more people, as the green feathers on this campus testify. But let us not be lulled Into believing that the danger has passed now that Mc Carthy has been recognized for the fascist he is. In American ruling circles there is a consistent policy of silencing all ex LISTEN TO ’‘SPORTS TODAY" WITH BILL STERN ABC RADIO NFTWORK MONDAY THRU FRIDAY

When you know your beer ...it's bound to be Bud SWhen it comes to beer, millions of people do “put all their eggs in one basket”. •. they always drink Budweiser. They know that no other beer can match the distinctive taste of Budweiser, brewed by the costliest process on Earth.

(Incidentally, Budweiser tastes •wonderful •with , hard-boiled eggs!)

^w

M\ Budweiser.

load5 ^ &eers ^n ^M Today ^^^ ...and Through The Years!

Representative for N.S.A to be elected this month

Delegates to the Seventh National Students Congress of the National Students Association (NSA) will be elected at

Five delegates and five alternates will be chosen for the congress, to be held at Iowa State College, Ames, Iowa, August 22 to 31.

At the same time, 10 alternates will be elected to represent UC at regional NSA

conferences

These are nominees:

throughout the year, the qualifications for

1. Candidates must be officially registered at UC.

2. Candidates must be carrying a minimum of two courses or the equivalent, neither at University College.

pression of popular and democratic demands, in accordance with the Mc Carthyite program of fascism both at home and abroad. An tl-Mc Carthy Ites must oppose all phases of this program.

Secretary of States Dulles’ speech on Indo-China to the Overseas Press Club is the most blatant expression of overseas Mc Carthyism. In slightly veiled terms Dulles called for war, when he said that a victory of the French over the Indo-Chinese people would require “united action’’ that “might involve serious risks.’’ The U. S. government already pays two-thirds the costs of this war, which the French people call the

“dirty war.’’ Now Dulles is trying to pare the American people for all participation. This is so obvious the New York Times Washington respondent says: “Such action, tn

preout

that corthe

view of official quarters here, cannot come without destroying the argument that the fighting In Indo-Chlna Is a ‘colonial war.’ ” (4-31-54).

Speeches cannot destroy the fact that a colonial war is just what Dulles would involve us in. Indo-China was conquered by the French in the 19th century. The French rule is maintained by U. S. bombers and German mercenaries in the French Foreign Legion. The peopie are we for

of Viet Nam, Laos, and Cambodia fighting for their independence as fought for ours in 1776. It is a fight democracy, and the Mc Carthyites

wish to suppress democracy overseas just as they suppress it at home.

Harold Baron

Labor Youth League

3. Candidates must have a twopoint (C) average or better.

4. Candidates must have been in residence for at least two quarters prior to election.

Nominating petitions must be signed by at least forty registered students. They do not have to be enrolled in the same division or school as the candidate.

Petitions must state whether candidates are running for national delegate, national alternate or regional alternate. Petitions should be filed with the election and rules committee of Student Government by noon on April 13.

^Disc

1367 E. 57th St.

THE RECORD

OF THE WEEK

Kathleen Ferrier Four Arias —

Handel, Gluck, and Mendelssohn

LD 9066 $2.95

354-4 April 2, 1954

THE CHICAGO MAROON

Page 5

Hillman (from page 3)

Prom must be made before the end of the month,” commented Hillman. “The biggest problem we face at present in connection with the Prom is that of a location for the dance. The choice of locations is between either Bartlett, a down-town hotel, or a south side hotel. Since we feel that the difference between a south side or a downtown hotel is an unimportant one, the choice boils down to that of either Bartlett or an off-campus hotel. Those who feel that the Prom should be at Bartlett suggest that to take the dance off campus again would make it not THE affair of the year but just another big SU dance; those who prefer a hotel feel that a better turnout could be gotten at an off-campus hotel. Another large group feel that the expense of a big band such as Herman’s cannot be justified.

“In issues such as this one the planning committee will be a welcome aid. Once the committee has taken its census of campus opinion concerning the dance we can plan with an eye to pleasing an already defined public opinion.”

In considering SU status in regard to other campus organizations, Hillman hurled a violent threat at Student Government. “We defy them to beat us at softball,” he challenged.

ITS ALL A MATTER OF TASTE South®*

atf Oiiiaat Mtftt Mai

CORR,, THZ AMKRICAN TOBACCO COMPANY

coast

oast ^

brands-’y C taste'

from

No.

wuwt *“

,teh intet^ ofes°t9

a com P .

vised Ue6es 1 teasonto

aeo^t*8'**"* ^i#^^

^',*' LUCKIES TASTE BETTER

Freedom (from page 1)

tions Club, Doc. Film, University Theatre, MAROON, B-J Council, almost all of the dormitories, Students for Democratic Action, Young Democrats, Young Republicans, Politics Club, ISL, SRP, and others.

A committee has prepared a half hour tape recording which includes parts of the recordings made at hearings before the Jenner committee to which several Chicago professors were subpoenaed. This tape is completed and is now available for any group wishing to hear it. It is already scheduled to be played at the Gates-Blake forum, April 11, with Professor Donald Meiklejohn leading a discussion afterward.

The committee is also sponsoring a bulletin board exhibit in the Reynolds Club lounge during the week. According to Rodman it is hoped that individual organizations will contribute their own exhibits, illustrating' cither their own positions in academic freedom, or some issue or aspect which they would like to present. Interested groups should contact Lyn Burns through tltt MAROON office, he said.

It was decided by the organizational representatives to cooperate with Roosevelt College in circulating the Bill of Rights Scroll, which will be signed by as many students as possible and then be

o

urvey"b® er When you come right down to it, you smoke for one simple reason enjoyment. And smoking enjoyment is all a matter of taste. Yes, taste is what counts in a cigarette. And Luckies taste better.

Two facts explain why Luckies taste better. First, L.S./M.F.T.—Lucky Strike means fine tobacco ... light, mild, goodtasting tobacco. Second, Luckies are actually made better to taste better always round, firm, fully packed to draw freely and smoke evenly.

So, for the enjoyment you get from better taste, and only from better taste, Be Happy—Go Lucky. Get a pack or a carton of better-tasting Luckies today.

presented to President Eisenhower, via Edward R. Murrow’s television program.

The scroll will state:

We the undersigned students and faculty of Roosevelt College and the University of Chicago take this occasion of National Academic Freedom Week to reaffirm our continuing belief in our Bill of Rights. Only if these constitutionally guaranteed freedoms are preserved can students and teachers explore, study and express their ideas without hesitation or fear. The American people have never hesitated to protect and preserve these fundamental rights and we do not hesitate now to reaffirm that (Bill of Rights follows).

All student groups will then be called upon to circulate copies for signing and copies will be present at all activities during the week.

Annual Buddhist holiday this week

Wesak Day, annual holiday commemorating the birth of Gautama Buddha, founder of the Buddhist religion, will be celebrated in Chicago today at 7:30 p.m. in Mandel Hall. The celebration will be sponsored by the India Association and the Chicago Buddhist Church. The public is cordially invited to attend the ceremonies. Admission is free.

Student groups must register

All new student groups seeking recognition as student organizations of the University of Chicago must register in the Student Activities Office by April 28, under the provisions of the Statute of the Student Government and the Code of Student Regulations.

To secure and maintain recognition, an organization must complete the registration forms issued by the Activities Office, and possess 10 or more members who are students in good standing at the University. All groups registered by April 28 will be listed in the revised Student Directory of the University. ALL GROUPS HAVING OBTAINED RECOGNITION IN PREVIOUS QUARTERS MUST REPORT QUARTERLY CHANGES.

A student organization must secure recognition to use University facilities such as rooms for meetings and bulletin boards.

'Merry Men' oppose Mc Carthy; wear feathers to support cause

The wearing of green feathers has become the latest manifestation of anti-Mc Carthy feeling on campus. The green feathers are being distributed by “Robin Hood’s Merry Men,” a new student organization.

The significance of Robin Hood as an anti-Mc Carthy symbol came about when a member of the Indiana text-book commission objected to the story of Robin Hood because it allegedly followed the Communist party line in its philosophy of “robbing the rich and giving to the poor.”

The organization was set up on this campus following examples of the University of Wisconsin

CLEANER, FRESHER, SMOOTHER!

and Indiana University. Arthur Waldman is temporary president, and Arthur Schwartz is temporary secretary of the campus group. The purpose of the organization as specified in its application for recognition is “opposition to Mc Carthyism and all other forms of totalitarianism,' including communism.”

An organizational meeting of the group will be held Wednesday in Law North at 4:30 p.m.

Qenetics, prison, in Pre-med future

The UC Pre-Med Club spring program will get under way next

Friday with a talk by Herluf H. Strandskov on human genetics.

W. R. Wilson, president, said the club will sponsor a tour of the Illinois state prison on May 2 for club members and guests.

Other spring quarter officers are Dick Tracy, vice president; Diane Batshaw, secretary, and Linda Plzak, treasurer.

Meetings are held every Wednesday at 3:30 p.m. in Abbott 133 and are open to all UC students interested in the biological sciences.

B. A. —

(from page 1)

Second year: Natural Sciences 2, Chemistry 105-6-7, Social Sciences, foreign language or mathematics.

Third year: Natural Sciences 3, Humanities, Biology 201-2-3, three divisional courses.

Fourth year: three to six divisional courses. History or OMP, Physics.

School of Business — Three years of work in the College and one year of work in the School of Business.

School of Law—Three years of work in the College and one year of work in the Law School.

Physical Sciences — First year: two to three College comprehensives, six to nine divisional courses.

Second year: two College comprehensives, six divisional couses. .

Third year: one College comprehensive, six divisional courses.

Fourth year: one College comprehensive, six divisional courses.

While this represents the average requirements of each division, requirements sometimes vary among departments of the division. For more detailed information, the official announcements should be consulted.

’ It’s TV

for me!"

“I live mi excitement and love every minute of it. As secretary to a TV producer I certainly use my Gibbs training. Thoroughness, accuracy, and poise under pressure are everyday musts.’*

Katharine Gibbs , „ secretarial training qualifies college girls for today’s job and tomorrow’s promotion. Special Course Coll,w Women. Write College Dean for “Gibbs Girls at Work."

KATHARINE GIBBS

SECRETARIAL

BOSTON IS, 90 Marlborough St NEW YORK 17, 230 Park Ay& CHICAGO 11, 51 E. Superior St. PROVIDENCE 6,155 Angell St MONTCLAIR, N J . 33 Plymouth St. Page 6

"Sir, did I understand you to soy that something is TRUE?" Collegiate 

MAROON plays its part in inter-college communication

|>y John Twomey

John Donne wrote long ago that, “No man is an island unto himself.” This could very well be the guide by which the MAROON has sought to extend its communication with colleges and universities both in the United States and abroad. No student, no student newspaper and no institution of learning can stand alone or remain apart from our joint responsibilities of leadership. Recognizing this need for intercommunication the MAROON does its part by mailing issues to over ninety schools in the United States, eight schools abroad and to eight miscellaneous periodicals and press services.

The ninety colleges in the United States receiving weekly copies of the MAROON represent a broad cross section in both location and enrollment. Small colleges like Bluefield State in Virginia and Chipola Junior College in Florida are on the mailing list as well as larger schools such as Columbia, University of Wisconsin and the University of California at Los Angeles (UCLA). MAROONS are also sent abroad to universities in far flung places as Wasada University in Tokyo, University of Melbourne, Australia, University of Bologna, Italy, Oxford University, England and to the Free University of Berlin.

The hundred or more student newspapers delivered to the MAROON office each week as a reflection of American campus opinion. The content of any paper while describing campus events acts also to tell a good deal about the orientation of the school where the paper is published. Student newspaper content by no means follows stereotyped lines. Variety seems to be the very hallmark of America’s campus press. Content differs as widely as does

the location, curriculum and student bodies of US colleges.

Consider the following for variety. The Rutger’s Observer ran a five column headline for a column one interview article on the local burlesque queen. On the other hand, The Battalion, published at Texas A & M, many times runs two pages of grocery advertisements and a recipe column. The Bruin, the UCLA campus paper, recently devoted a four page “magazine” supplement to articles on the academy awards and the motion picture industry. One pa HYde Park 3-8372

ASHAWAY BRAIDED RACKET STRING Choice of The Champions

per very much like the CHICAGO MAROON is the Colgate Maroon. People have been known to inadvertently pick up a copy of this tabloid and become very confused after reading all about happenings at that other “UC.”

Many school papers reprint or describe items found in the MAROON. This gives an indication of the kind of reception various MAROON articles are given on other campuses. The Ohio State lantern quoted at length Chancellor Kimpton’s views on Academic Freedom as reported in the MAROON last fall. The University of Vermont Cynic reprinted in its entirety Dean Strozier’s revised plan for the Michigan Plan. The Cynic also gave mention in their “Intercollegiate Roundup” of the innovation of pizza pie in the CShop. Under the headline, "It Only Goes To Show You,” the Proscript of the Richmond Professional Institute printed an item about the MAROON’s unauthorized party and subsequent social restrictions.

While the most important items from the MAROON are many times over looked and items from other college papers can’t be covered too extensively in the pages of the MAROON, inter-collegiate exchanges are continuing to bring greater understanding and insight about the students on other campuses.

Eye Examinations Visual Training

Dr. Kurt Rosenbaum

optometrist

1132 E. 55th Street

THE CHICAGO MAROON

Socialists meet, discuss liberties

“How NOT to Fight Mc Carthyism” is the topic of tonight’s meeting of the Young Socialist League (YSL) at 8 p.m. in Ida Noyes.

A critique of the stand taken by the Democrats and most liberal groups in defense of civil liberties will be offered by Bogdan Denitch, editor of the YSL Challenge and former national secretary of the Young Peoples Socialist League of the Socialist Party.

This is the first meeting of the newly-formed YSL on campus. After Denitch presents the YSL viewpoint on Mc Carthyism and civil liberties, the floor will be opened for general discussion and debate.

New accomodations bought for UC nurses

Housing shortages for nurses employed in the nine UC hospitals will be alleviated by new accommodations in Blackstone Hall, 5748 Blackstone Avenue. William B. Harrell, vice-president of the University in charge of business affairs, announced Thursday that the purchase of the hall will provide residence for about 90 nurses.

The entire interior of the sixstory hotel will be renovated to provide kitchenette facilities for two and three-room suites. Apartments will be open to all nurses employed in' the UC clinics, including the two new hospitals now nearing completion.

Service (from page 1 )

and the particular complexity of the order. All orders are placed at the Center.

The Center is open from 11:30 to 2:30 and from 3:30 to 5:30, Monday through Friday. The Exchange in Cobb Hall has been closed.

UNIVERSITY BARBER SHOP

1453 E. 57th

Fine hair Cutting Two barbers working Floyd C. Arnold, Proprietor

Portraits by

LOUISE BARKER Photographer

1457 E. 57th St. BU 8-0876

RESTRING WITH

STANDS OUT In play e Harder Smashes e Better Cut and Spin

STANDS UP in your racket • Moisture Immune e Lasting Liveliness

COSTS If SS then gut

APPROX. JIRt NONO COST: Pro-Foctod Braid... .$6.00 Mvlll-Ply Braid.$5.00

At tennis shops and sporting goods stores.

Ex-UC professor

gets H-bomb credit

An article in last Sunday’s Sun Times credited a fonner UC professor as the man responsible for the development of the hydrogen bomb. The scientist, Hungarian born, Edward Teller, recalled that Klaus Fuchs, the convicted atomspy in Great Britain, had attended seminars in New Mexico during World War II and had listened to discussions of the planned hydrogen bomb.'

Teller happened to recall this information at a time when many scientists were urging a reduction of atomic stock piles after the war. The Sun-Times report stated that the Atomic Energy Commission had given favorable consideration to these pleas. But Teller’s warning that Fuchs may have transmitted details of the hydrogen bomb to the Soviet Union changed the commission’s outft no

Restaurant and Barbecue 1411 East 53rd S*-eet HYde Park 3-5300

HARRY A. ZISOOK & SONS

University District Renting Office

MAYFLOWER HOTEL 6125 KENWOOD AVENUE

Let us help you

GET OUT OF THE ROOMING HOUSES AND SUBSTANDARD BUILDINGS IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD For the convenience and accommodation of the Students, Faculty and Employees of the University we have opened a University District Renting Office to serve you in obtaining better housing. , Come In and let us know what your requirements are so that we may assist you.

AVAILABLE NOW AND/OR MAY 1st

Hotel rooms with private bath and shower Sgl.—$8 per wk.; dbl.—$12 per wk.

Hotel apts. with switchboard and maid service

S1^ rm. unfurnished apt. at $80

1 rm. furnished apt. at $73

3 tm. furnished apt. at $100

office hours 9 a.m. to 5 p.m Monday thru Friday THERE 16 NO CHARGE FOR THIS SERVICE main office

HARRY A. ZISOOK & SONS

Real Estate 1711 E. 71st PL 2-5960

Serving Chicago since 1907

April 2, 1954

look, and subsequently it launched a full scale program to develop the H-bomb which has recently been tested in the Pacific.

Teller, who joined the University staff at the beginning of Wi Jrld War II was present when the first self-sustaining chainreaction became a reality under the Stagg Field stands in December, 1942. After this turning point in atomic development, Teller was granted a leave of absence to devote his time to the development of the Manhattan Project in Los Alamos, New Mexico. However, he found his duties there had piled up to such an extent that he finally severed all connections with the University last Spring, and devoted himself entirely to his work with the Atomic Energy Commission.

CONTINENTAL

Gour"1®*

RESTAURANT

1508 E. 57th (Corner Lake Park)

“Shush-Lik” a Specialty April 2, 1954

THE CHICAGO MAROON

Page 7

WUS opens annual fund drive

World University Service Fund Drive starts April 5 on campus. Tag days will be April 8 and 9.

WUS (formerly the World Student Service Fund) is the official agency for international relief on the university level. It is the channel through which the students of the world unite to help each other and help themselves. Thirty-two national branches are at work in Asia, the Middle West, Western Europe and North America. WUS funds are raised in the U. S., Canada, England, France,

WUS work: student dorm in Korea

Switzerland, Uruguay. Australia, New Zealand.

Gives world-wide aid

The organization works without prejudice to race, and nationality, religious and political conviction, and social and economic background. It encourages and supports all efforts on the part of students, professors, and others to meet the basic needs of the universities throughout the world. The WUS program of mutual assistance through the sharing of resources, knowledge, and experience brings together students and teachers in mutual service.

WUS is sponsored internationally by the World's Student Christian Federation, Pax Romana, 1MCS, and the World Union of Jewish Students. The organization works closely with agencies of the United Nations, non-governmental university organizations,

Announcements out

Catalogues of the requirements for the new college programs will be available Monday at the Information desk of the Administration Building according to the office of official publications.

For students now in the college, there will be meetings arranged with John Davey, dean of students in the college, and the deans of the various divisions to determine programs for these students.

ed housing accommodations for Korean university students.

Students everywhere in need

This year funds are needed to

aid thousands of students in universities of Asia, Europe, the Middle East. They lack basic necessities of life: food clothing, a place to sleep work, medical care, funds to

the and the and and pay

A student hostel in Korea has been purchased with $15,000 collected from American organizations supporting the World University Service (WUS) Korean Emergency Appeal, the WUS News reports.

The dormitory will provide badly needed housing for Korean university students. It will be reconditioned by WUS

and national unions of students.

Last year fifteen thousand dollars of the funds contributed by American foundations in support of the World University Service Korean Emergency Appeal was used to provide desperately needtheir university fees, books and laboratory equipment.

During the week of the fund drive movies will be shown describing the work of WUS.

Besides the annual fund raising drive on campus, a WUS dance on April 24 and a jazz concert on April 25 are two main projects to raise more money for the cause.

Heading the WUS Fund Drive on campus this year is the executive council. Members of the council are Bob Demery, Sue Matthay, John Eyner, Earl Herrick, Eliot Kulick, Janice Porter, Janice Hubka, and Justin Johnson.

in cooperation with the United Nations Korean Relief Administration.

Contributions sought

•This is only one of a series of contributions to Korean students from WUS. Most recent foundation gift to the WUS emergency appeal was a $5,000 grant from the Henry L. and Grace Doherty Charitable Foundation, Inc., of New York, and WUS is looking for further contributions to support its long-range university reconstruction program in Korea.

Dick Erman, an American student, has described the hardships which faced Korean students during a trip he made through the war-torn peninsula.

Erman reported that although many Korean students have returned to permanent university

Your Wings are

your Passport

CHl

wherever

you go...

campuses in Seoul, conditions are far from ideal. The pre-war university buildings at Seoul were a welcome contrast to the shacks and huts which had housed the students at Pusan.

Facilities inadequate

Even at Seoul, Erman reported, most classrooms lack proper heating and lighting facilities. Outside of the actual classrooms, most students have no place to study and only a few have adequate living quarters. The National Library and the Seoul city library were both without heat and proper light during Erman’s visit.

The WUS News quotes Erman as saying the “zeal for knowledge” of the Korean students "is inspiring and the conditions they endure to gain an education puts us Americans to shame.”

WUS also plans to distribute text books to student victims of the earthquake in the Ionian islands. Two refugee students were advanced money by WUS which enabled them to obtain diplomas and qualify for self-supporting jobs.

British members of WUS have sent several shipments of medicines, books and clothing to students in other countries. More than $1,000 worth of antibiotics and other drugs were bought in Britain and sent to Burma.

Four university students from Europe and Asia are touring the United States to help explain the work of the WUS throughout the world.

COMO

PIZZERIA

1520E. 55th St.

• Bar-be-cue chicken • Bar-be-cue ribs Delivery Anywhere

FA 4-5525

Your Air Force wings are your personal passport to universal respect and admiration. They re a sign—recognized everywhere that mark you as one of America’s finest.

To wear them, you must win them ... as an Aviation Cadet. They come with the gold bars of

an Air Force Lieutenant and earnings of over $5,000 a year! They come complete with the admiration of a grateful Nation.

If you’re single, between 19 and 26 J^, prepare to win this passport to success. Join the Aviation Cadets! For further information, fill out this coupon today.

AVIATION CADET, AFPTR-P-4

Headquarters, U.S.A.F. A^^gp

Washington 25, D.C. ^w^m

Please send me information on my opportunities as an Air Force Pilot.

Name

UNITED STATES AIR FORCE

Sialo learn as you go!

to europe on student ships

• fanguuga cfataaa

• ioruma m turopa't when, Malory * problems

• Wanting, mpviai, concerts

• aft-cobin o Kipa, $140 up

• tlu^anft * laachorc aligibla

East bound June 8, 19, 20

Wottbovnd Aug. 11, 24, Sept. 3

Coniult Th* Council Group

Trani Information Sarrica council on _ student travel 179 broadway, now york 7, RE. 2-0934 Page 8

THE CHICAGO MAROON

April 2, 1954

Members of the Bockmon ballet troupe.

Acrotheater to sponsor ballet

Bockman group dances here

Four original ballets will be presented in Mandel Hall, three of them for the first time, Saturday, April 10, at 8:30 p.m., under the sponsorship of Acrotheater. The program will be repeated on Sunday, April 11, at 3 p.m.

This year’s production of the Bockman Ballet (last seen here on campus in February, 1953) will also mark the appearance of two of the group’s leading dancers, Ken Johnson and Loyd Tygett, in the added role of choreographer.

The program will open with Charles Bockman’s latest work, “Suite en Valse,” a suite of waltzes contrasting in mood and tertipo, set to Dohnanyi's two-piano composi Seeger returns to Mandel tomorrow Afro-Cuban vocalist is also featured

Pete Seeger, a leading American folk singer, returns to campus tomorrow night at 8 p.m. for his second Mandel Hall concert of the year. He will be featured on a program that also includes Afro-Cuban singer Ella Jenkins and a quartet from the UC Folklore Society.

January 30, Seeger and blues guitarist Big Bill Broonzy drew a standing-room crowd under the sponsorship of the Student Representative Party. Tomorrow night’s concert is sponsored by the UC chapter of World University Service, with proceeds to go to the Ellis

Community Center Nursery School. Advance sales have been brisk.

Seeger, a native New Englander, picks the five string banjo, and is generally acknowledged as one of the leading contemporary ban joists. He has app e a r e d in concerts, open-air songfests in New York’s Washington Square, hotels, night clubs, summer camps, the Broadway production of “Dark of the Moon,” a documentary film on folk music (“To Hear Your Banjo Play”), several radio shows and dramatic productions, schools, labor unions, and on records. He gained national attention several years

ago as sparkplug of the Weavers, and is current featured on Stinson records and Folkways records.

Ella Jenkins is a young Chicagoan who has had several previous professional performance in the area. She sings the songs and

See "Seeger,” page 10

tion. Jane Bockman, his wife, and Ken Johnson will dance together in the pas de deux, almost always the high point of Bockman's ballets.

His Nocturne, set to a selection of Debussy’s piano pieces, is a mood piece, in keeping with the music, exploring the situation of two lonely young people who chance to meet and are attracted to each other. It was first performed last November for the Chicago Ballet Guild, an organization formed to promote interest in the dance and to eventually establish a resident ballet company in this city.

A third ballet, The Mandarin —a fairy-tale-like story of the love of a young Chinese princess — was choreographed by Ken Johnson to the music of Neal Kayan, Chicago composer. Kayan, who has created a number of ballet scores (his best known being The Theme) serves also as the group’s chief pianist. Joining him at the piano for two of the ballets will be Robert Jones, instructor at

Exhibition in Goodspeed

An exhibition of drawings, paintings, and prints from the collection of the late Mrs. John U. Nef is on exhibit through April 17 in the Goodspeed Hall galleries of the Renaissance Society. It will include work by Picasso, Braque, Chagall, Dufay, Pascin, and Matisse. The exhibition is being presented in memory of Mrs. Nef.

the American Conservatory of Music.

Etta Buro and Lloyd Tygett, both former students at the University, will dance the roles of the young princess and prince.

The closing ballet, The Comedians, choreographed by Tygett to Kabalevsky’s music of the same name, is a tongue-in-cheek satire on the ways and manners of professional theater people. A group of traveling artists gather together for a performance and, after a little to-do, finally give it.

Playwrights to give works

of Strindberg and Chekov

A CAMPUS-TO-CAREER CASE HISTORY

Miss Julia, a realistic tragedy by August Strindberg and The Marriage Proposal, a pleasant one-act farce by Anton Chekov, will comprise the double bill to be presented by Playwrights Theatre Club, starting Wednesday.

Miss Julia is a highly interesting play in many respects, perhaps most striking is its originality. Strindberg shocked his contemporaries not onlyby his frankly sexual theme but by his analysis of the social structure of late nineteenth century Sweden as well.

The characterizations of Julia and Jean are among the most highly developed in dramatic literature. In terms of socialinteraction, Julia is symbolic as a product of the decaying higher strata of society, while Jean represents the “new blood” pressing upwards in the social hierarchy as a revitalizing force. As individuals, the Stringberg characterizations are noted . as profound studies of the intricacies of personality.

Strindberg achieves the tightness of construction of Ibsen without allowing the technique to become painfully obvious. Few productions have succeeded in bringing to life the many subtleties and the full depth of meaning contained in the play. For this reason, it has often been recommended that one read the play before seeing its presentation.

Playwrights has cast Zohra Alton as the tortured Miss Julia, a young woman of high rank who yields to her attraction to her father’s valet, Jean. The ambitious valet is to be enacted by Ed Asner. Elaine May, who has directed in Los Angeles and worked as actor, director, and

teacher for many years, will stage the play for playwrights.

The curtain raiser for Miss Julia will be the Chekov farce. Playwright’s have described it as “an effortlessly simple farce, which moves at an amazingly swift pace.”

The double bill will run Wednesday through Sunday evenings at Playwrights Theatre, 1560 N. La Salle, April 7 through May 2.

Only Chicago Performance

Wed. Eve., April 7, 8:30

Romantic Broadway Hit

SIGMUND ROMBERG'S MUSIC FESTIVAL

“IMMORTAL MUSICALS” in thrilling new concert

LANNY IRRA ALL-STAR

ROSS PETINA CAST

"The DESERT SONG," and hit selections from Romberg's Student Prince, Maytime, My Maryland, New Moon, and other music lovers' delights.

Student Rate $1.00

SINAI TEMPLE

1720 East 54th St.

BUtterfield 8-1600

Emmett Smith, E. E., ’50, never heard of telephone traffic work, but what he saw of the job intrigued him. He explains how it worked out.

(Reading time: 40 seconds)

\

Emmett Smith supervises operation of this training switchboard, which he originally helped to design.

MIDWAY 3-4433

PHOTOGRAPHERS

1171 EAST 55th STREET

NO 7-9071 IIVIRE PAKK THEATRE h AKd PARK at Sara

Inspired clowning by five of the world's great clowns

Alastair Sim

'Folly to be Wise1

The Four Marx Brothers “A Day at the Races"

Coming April 9: "Hamlet"

Student Rate 50c All Performances If You Present Your ID Card at the Boxoffice

“Communications have always been one of my main interests — in the Navy and at the University of Michigan. So I was very happy when the Michigan Bell Telephone Company invited me to visit their headquarters to talk about a job.

“In Detroit I had a chance to look at a number of departments, including one I’d never heard of before, the Traffic Department. I found that, in addition to the engineering of switchboards, its work involved the supervision and the actual handling of customer calls. It struck me like a wonderful opportunity to combine staff engineering and field management.

“My first impression was right, too, because my work covered both. First, I had on-the-job training assignments in several different kinds of offices —local, Long Distance, dial and manual. Then

I worked in engineering, translating estimates of future growth into the actual number of circuits and switchboard positions required.

“Now I’m supervising the operation of one of the boards I helped engineer. Briefly, my job is to see that my district gets the kind of equipment it needs and that what we have is functioning properly. Working with people is another major part of my job, too, because I serve in an advisory capacity to the supervisors of the Long Distance operators.

“Needless to say, I’m happy with my job. A job I didn’t even know existed.’’

• • •

Emmett Smith’s job is with a Bell Telephone Company. There are similar opportunities for college people with Bell Telephone Laboratories, Western Electric and Sandia Corporation.

[m BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM Sholom^ cast to open Freedom Week

The cast of The World of Shoiom Aleichem, under thedirectio nof Howard Da Silva, will open Academic Freedom Week with a dramatic recital of Inheritors by Susan Glaspell. The recital will take place Sunday, April 1 1, at 6 p.m., between performances of Shoiom Aleichem.

Inheritors, a play which concerns academic freedom on a Midwest campus in 1920, was first performed by the Provincetown Players in New York, in 1921. Since then it has been in the repertoire of the Goodman

Theatre and the old Civic Repertory Theatre and has been widely produced elsewhere. Its author, Susan Glaspell, was considered with O'Neil, Anderson, Rice, and Odetts, among the leading playwrights of the twenties and thirties.

The play opens in 1879, in a newly settled but growing Midwest town. It describes the pioneer founders of the town—those from old families and those who were recent immigrants. One of these persons wishes to “Plant a college, so’s after we are gone that college says for us, says in people, learning has made more: ‘This is why we took this land!’ ”

The remainder of the play takes place in 1920 in the same town, now a prosperous steel town. The son of a Hungarian immigrant we saw at the beginning of the play is now president of the college and a wealthy banker. The college has grown to position of respect and is in line for a state appropriation. Nevertheless, the chairman of the appropriations board is wary of “radical” teachers and students — a professor who protested the prison condi Documentary Film Group

Social Science 122 7:15 & 9.15 $.50

tions imposed upon a student who conscientiously objected and two Hindu students who “preach the gospel of free India—non British India.”

While passing out handbills protesting deportation of anti-British Indians from the United States and calling for freedom for India, the Hindu students are molested and arrested by police. Although this takes place in full view of the

UC Choir to present Bach's 'St John Passion'

Bach’s “Passion to Our Lord According to Saint John” will be performed by the UC Choir on Palm Sunday, April 11. at Rockefeller Memorial Chapel. In a Baroque performance with members of the Chicago Symphony Orchestra, the concert features Dorothy Linden Krieg, soprano, Evelyn Reynolds, contralto, John Toms, tenor, Bernard Izzo, baritone, and Andrew Foldi, bass. Instrumental soloists include Julius Klein, viola da gamba, Jerry S i r u c e k , oboe d’amore, and Heinrich Fleischer, organ. The conductor is Richard Vikstrom.

It was not until 1721, two years before Bach’s appointment as Cantor in Leipsig, that

Tonight ... a recognized masterpiece

THE INFORMER

Adapted from Liam O'Flaherty's novel set during the Irish Revolution

Positively trill be shown

college president, the only person who protests is the granddaughter of the college’s founder. She and the Hindus are jailed. The professor finds that he must compromise to his economic position rather than do anything. The girl now must choose between sacrificing her principles to accept the protection of her family or to “be the most you can be, so that life will be more because you were”

the first “concerted” Passion, one by Kuhnau, was performed there in St. Thomas’s. Before this the Passions sung in Holy Week had been in the traditional plainsong recitative with simple “faux bourdon” choral passages, as before the Reformation. The Saint John Passion was first given in St. Thomas’s probably in 1723, and is the earliest of Bach’s extant Passions. The composer made considerable alterations for the second performance in 1727, in which form it was given subsequently.

Of rather modest proportions compared to, say, the Saint Matthew Passion, the Saint John is scored for strings, flutes, oboes, organ and continue with occasional special instruments such as a viola da gamba and an oboe d’amore.

The text consists of chapters xviii and xix of Saint John, with interpolations from Saint Matthew’s accounts of the earthquake and Saint Peter’s remorse, 14 congregational hymn stanzas, and 12 original lyrical pieces, mostly borrowed from “Der gemarterte und sterbende Jesus,” a popular Passion text by Barthold Hinrich Brocke, set by Handel and numerous othand leave “grandfather’s college” and “one day lie under the same sod with him, and not be ashamed.” She chooses the latter.

The performance will be of an abrided script prepared by Howard Da Silva for the UC Academic Freedom Week. The production will feature Da Silva, Gilbert Green, and others from the cast of World of Shoiom Aliechem. No admission will be charged.

ers.

Tickets for the April 11 concert are on sale at $2.00 each. Student tickets will be available through April 9 at $1.00, and must be presented with an ID card. The concert begins at 3 p.m.

A panel on the Saint John Passion will be held this Sunday, at Breasted Hall, the Oriental Institute, 58th and Univer B’nai B’rith presents ‘Dybbuk’ for Combined Jewish Appeal

Sunday at 8:30 p.m. in Mandel Hall, the B’nai B’rith Hillel Foundation will present a benefit performance on behalf of the Combined Jewish Appeal, of the Playwrights Theatre Club production of The Dybbuk by S. Ansky.

The Dybbuk was first produced in 1923. Written in Yiddish, it was first produced by Playwrights Theatre in translation last January and received a favorable enough reception to extend it a month.

Based on Chassidic folklore and told in the manner of an extended folk tale, the play tells the story of a student’s inquiry into the Kabala (a book of mysticism), as the result of an agreement bonded in friendship before his birth by his father and the father of the girl who is to be his bride by

Howard Da Silva

sity. Sponsored by the Chapel Committee on Religion and the Arts, the panel members are: Jaroslav Pelikan (theological interpretation), Heinrich Fleischer (musicological interpretation) and Richard Vikstrom (problems of performance). The discussion begins at 4 p.m., and admission is without ticket and without charge.

the agreement. He dies as his mystic rites prove unsuccessful. His soul, as a dybbuk, enters the body of the girl. The resultant situations bring about a trial called by a dead man and finally the union, in the “higher planes,” of the souls of the girl and the student.

Reserved seats at $1.50, $2.00, and $2.50 are available in the Hillel Office. Call PLaza 2-1127.

Smoke only Camels for 30 days — see for yourself why Camels’ cool, genuine mildness and rich, friendly flavor give more people more pure pleasure than any other cigarette!

all over the Mid-West

and finally to

AC TOR-PKItf UCER -DIRECTOR Of HOWES AHO TELWSWK

Newest noi leading

Dick Powell says: “At Little Rock College, Ark., I began singing with a choral group. This was followed by dance-orchestra jobs

Hollywood. After 40 pictures, typed as a ‘crooner’, I finally won a ‘tough guy’ role and really got going!”

< I PICKED CAMELS AG BEST 18 YEARS AGO AND <

WE'VE BEEN THE BEST OF FRIENDS EVER SINCE! CAMELS’ FRIENDLY FLAVOR AND MILDNESS HAVE ALWAYS J

K AGREED WITH MEl

EOPLE

AGREE WITH M0

THAN ANY OTHER CIGARETTE 1

50*

CAMELS LEAD INKSALES BY RECORD

R J. Reynoldf Tcbnccc Co. W i Dblon-Sttlem, N C.

Start smoking Camels yourself!

 rage 10 THE CHICAGO MAROON

April 2, 1954

SPORTS EVENTS THIS WEEK

Tomorrow Baseball* St. Joseph (2) 1:00 Stagg Field Track Wisconsin Teachers 2:00 Field-House Monday Baseball* North Central 3:30 Stagg Field

•weather permitting

Eastern schools sweep NCAA; UC fencers foiled, place 21st

Stagg Field stands were empty on Saturday afternoons as the Maroons went down to defeat week after week, and only the expert playing of Jay Burwanger, the University’s last football hero, and the skilled coaching of Clark Shaughnessy kept the Maroons in competition.

Attempts at restoration were made

Several attempts at restoring football since 1939 have been made but all failed. Hutchins had favored a program of competition in a small league of smaller schools after the war, but tins attempt never materialized, however, the University saw one year of intra mural football in 1947, the year of peak enrollment, but this program collapsed a year later. Three years later the Ma Yoon uniforms were donned for the last time when a group of students paired off in the so-called “Philosophy Bowl.” The Platonists defeated the Aristotilians, 6-0, that day.

Shortly after football was abolished, Hutchins told that student body: “The greatest obstacle to the development of a university in this country is the popular misconception of what a university is. The two most popular of these are that it is a kindergarden and that it is a country club. Football has done as much as any single thing to originate, disseminate and confirm these misconceptions. By getting rid of football, by presenting the spectacle of a university that can be great without football, the University of Chicago may perform a signal service to higher education throughout the land.”

JV Gymnasts top city champions

The JV gymnasts finished their season last month defeating Leyden Township. 73-56, and Lindbloom, 79ta-72'.2. Coach Tex ter considers the victory over Lindblom “a feather in the team’s cap” because Lindblom was the city champion in gymnastics.

B-J may allow girls in lounges

Burton-Judson Council announced last week that there is a good chance for the house lounges in B-J to be opened for women visitors on Friday evenings and Sunday afternoons.

It will be required, however, that a student from each house where this plan is to be put into effect must be in the lounge at all times.

The lounges are thus far the only places where female guests will be permitted. At present only the main Burton and Judson lounges, the two libraries, and the basement snack bar are the only place where women are permitted.

No football...

(from page 1)

Ing. Mort said. “They would get no glory and headlines. They would never play football for the school because they would not be students by the time the program was started,” he continued.

Most believed the proposed program failed because the students tried to push too fast. He believes that two or three years of intramural competition are necessary before attempts at inter collegiate schedules can be made.

*lt's al! a budget problem'

Strozier said that the major difficulty with re-establishing football was the ancient University nemesis—money. “It's all a budget problem,” he said, “and football —even intra mural—is an expensive proposition. It can’t be done overnight.” One member of the student committee laid the cause of its failure to student apathy. “They just aren’t interested in playing football,” he said.

Rumors began last autumn

Rumors that efforts to resurrect football were underway on campus were circulated last fall. The Omaha Evening World-Herald quoted Chancellor Lawrence A. Kimpton: “I wouldn’t have any objections if we might some day start football again.” Strozier is reported as shouting to the reporter of the Omaha newspaper from the bath tub, “I wouldn’t object either.” The Chicago Daily News carried a front page story the same week telling Metcalf’s desire to see football returned to campus.

Strozier denied the report printed by the Omaha journal, “Big time competition is definitely not favored by the Chancellor.” Metcalf agreed, saying that “any rumor that Chicago wants reinstatement in the Big Ten is ridiculous.”

Students draw plans for program

However, these statements had enough effect to draw 50 pro-football students to a meeting in the Bartlett Gym trophy room with Metcalf, assistant director of athletics, Kyle Anderson, and director of student activities, William M. Birenbaum. At this meeting Metcalf announced that a detailed report on the cost and nature of an intra mural program was being prepared by the athletic department and the five-man committee which was appointed at that time.

Geffner said that the report was only tentative, but embraced a span of three years. In the first year four teams of 22 men each would compete in an intra mural program. The following year the same program would be retained, but some inter-collegiate competition would be scheduled. After that a full season of inter-collegiate football would be the yearly fare.

No contests since 1939

The University of Chicago has not fielded a football team since 1939, when former Chancellor Robert M. Hutchins announced the University’s withdrawal from intercollegiate competition. Although the years 1938 and 1939 were the worst in the history of the Maroon football team, the squad was losing steadily since the beginning of that decade when Amos Alonzo Stagg ceased to coach the teams.

Already large sections of the

CANOE TRIPS

Quetico-Superior Wilderness. Only $5.00 per man day for complete outfit, aluminum canoe and food. For free folder and may write: Bill Rom, CANOE COUNTRY OUTFITTERS, Box 717 C, Ely, Minnesota ALEXANDER'S THE GREAT [

JI PLACE TO EAT OFF CAMPUS J

: OPEN DAY AND NIGHT J

: YOUR HOSTS WILL BE J

GEORGE KYROS PETE HRISTAKOS ►

' 1137 -39 Eaet 63rd Strout *

' 'V^wwrww w wwwwv www-v Www vwrwwwirwwvw wwwwwww^ >

by Davis Bobrow

Columbia and New York University tied for first place in the 10th annual National Collegiate Athletic Association fencing championships. Over 30 colleges and universities competed in the tournament for which the University of Chicago was the host. The matches were held in Bartlett Gym last weekend.

The Maroon fencers finisned their season by placing twenty-first in the meet. Chicago was represented by Alex Shane, co-captain Ernie Dunston and Dave Bobrow. Shane made the best showing of the three, finishing nineteenth in the epee competition. In foil and sabre

Dunston and B o b r o w finished twentieth and twenty-sixth, respectively.

Sobel sparks Columbia

Columbia jumped to an early lead in the meet, and sparked by saber champion Steve Sobel, managed to stave off NYU’s second day drive. Eastern schools took the first seven places as Cornell and Navy finished third and fourth.

Other individual winners in the

Seeger (from page 8) chants of Afro-Cuban societies, religious cults common today in Cuba, accompanying herself on a tuned hand drum. She appeared at a Folklore Society “Wing-Ding” last quarter.

The quartet features guitarist Moe Hirsch, Folklore Society president; ban joist Bob March; his wife, Georgia, guitarist, and Prentiss Choate; all of whom have been frequent performers at folk music functions on campus. They will perform vocal and instrumental quartets, some individual numbers, and together with Seeger. Hirsch, a student in the math department, is considered one of the best of American’s young folk guitarists. Banjoist March Is a student in the Physics department. His wife Is an alumnus of the College. Prentiss Choate is a transfer student from the University of California, and is studying in the humanities division.

Tickets for the concert are available at the SG student service

desk in the Reynolds Club basement. General admission is $1, reserved seats $1.50. Tickets will also be available before the performance at Mandel Hall box office.

B-J volley ball to start soon

Volley ball inter-house matches have once again become the major sporting interest in B-J.

Starting next week, the first matches of the 1954 season will be held.

Most houses in B-J are expected to be represented.

The first in this series of matches will be held in the field house, Monday at 4 p.m. Vincent House will be paired off against Matthews House in the opening game of this tournament.

Press Here To Write

All New Automatic Retractable Pen NEW 4" LONG CARTRIDGE Gives Double The Former Ink Supply!

NOW — better than ever! Ideal for personal use, school and gifts. Sparkling PERMAGLEAM cap in tarnish resisting Gold-Tone has new improved mechanism, metal threads. Smart streamlined styling. Assorted colors. Available with red, blue or green ink. Smooth writing. Instant drying. Will not leak, smear or fade. Highest quality transfer-proof ink. Precision made. One hand push button — clip operation. A big value. Order NOW for school, home, gifts — specify color of ink desired. Send check or money order today. We pay postage. Money back guarantee.

Press ' Here To Retract Point

ONLY

3for$1.00

12 for g 3.50 50 for $14.00 100 for $27.00 Refills 15c ea.

BARCLAY DISTRIBUTORS Dept. 4. P.O. Box 45 Forest Hills, N.Y.

round - robin tournament besides Sobel who had 24 wins and three losses were foilman Bob Goldman of Pennsylvania. 23-3, and Henry Kolowrat of Princeton in epee, 23-7.

Cornell duelist wins trophy

The Illinois Memorial trophy for sportsmanship as well as competitive ability, was given to Mocquard, the Cornell foil entry. The selection was based on a vote of the 100 fencers and the opinion of a committee of coaches.

UC Athletic Director Nelson Metcalf and fencing coach Alvar Hermanson administered the meet.

CLARIFY YOUR THINKING

THE MIND ALIVE by the Overstreets ....$3.75

The further exploration of how to achieve emotional maturity. The logical successor to the MATURE MIND.

THE MEASURE OF MAN by Krutch $3.50

Krutch maintains .that Man has a dim future unless he reasserts a positive belief in the power of his own will.

MAN'S UNCONQUERABLE MIND, by Highet ...$2.75 From the wealth of his knowledge of the classical past Professor Highet explores the meaning of culture.

HOW TO MAKE SENSE by Flesch $2.75

The author presents a scientific technique for training in communication.

THE POWER OF WORDS by 

Chase discusses semantics, cybernetics and other branches of communication, and applies them to fields ranging from mass media ta Russian propaganda.

UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO BOOKSTORE

5802 Ellis Avenue

a

WEEK-END GOLFER... OR TITLE HOLDER

WILL SAVE YOU STROKES!

THESE CLUBS

Shooting to break 100... 90... 80 ... or to take a title?

Spalding’s sensational advance in clubs — new ’54 Synchro Dyned woods and irons — can do more to save you strokes than any other clubs you ever played!

Reason? Try a few swings — and see. Every wood, every iron now has identical contact feel. You naturally swing freer, improve timing ... get the ball away straighter and for more distance.

Will you shoot better golf consistently? Ask any golfer who owns a Spalding Synchro-Dyned Top-Flite set... and then have your professional fit you.

Spaldin G Sffne/uv-Dffned TOP-FLITE

^ECISTEKEB COLP €LUE3

Told through golf professionais on Tl Y April 2, 1954

THE CHICAGO MAROON

rage Give names of Lettermen

53 awarded athletic letters

Following are the names of the 53 athletes awarded letters:

Major “C” Award: Robert E. Mann, Richard S. Homer, Fred D. Hubbard, William A. Lester, Jr., Wallace G. Lonergan, David J. Smith, basketball;

Ernest J. Dunston, David P. Karcher, Alex M. Shane, fencing;

Ronald L. Graham, Richard M. Herndon, Herbert M. Metcalf, gymnastics;

Lancing R. Felker, Robert R. Giedt, Howard M. Jenk Baseball, tennis take spotlight

Season starts; chill troubles Maroon nine

by Lennie Friedman

Rumor relates that shortstop Wendell Marumoto was swept off his feet by a gust of the 70 milean-hour gale during vacation practice and landed in a perfect fourpoint flop on North Field.

Aside from this minor mishap, spring training for the Maroon ball club consisted of catching colds and pellets from the snow and hail that hit Chicago over the interim. Coach Kyle Anderson is wondering how far into the spring quarter he will have to postpone the games.

Season starts tomorrow

The team hopes to swing into action tomorrow afternoon in Stagg Field against the St. Joseph nine. Game time for the doubleheader is 1 p.m. Anderson will start his veteran players tomorrow, and will place his rookie pitchers under fire. Starting in the infield will be newly-elected team-captain Dave Utley at first, Wendell Marumoto and Bob Mann as the agile double-play combina HOW’D YOU LIKE TO...

meet

Captain Maurice 6. Steele

Ha’s hare, on campus now— to show you how to ..

earn over <5000 a year.. • become an officer in the air force • • • got a head start in |et aviation • • • be a part of a groat flying team • • •

in, Roy J. Porterfield, swimming;

David W. Abelson, Allan C. Bates, Kent V. Flannery, Floyd C. Richards, Frank Ernest Richards, wrestling.

Old English “C” Award: Bruce R. Colby, Richard L. Garcia, Walter L. Walker, basketball;

David B. Bobrow, Peter O. Clauss, Joseph R. Grassie, Paul P. Machotka, Robert J. Eiechler, Theodore Small, William M. Zavis, fencing;

Bernard J. Del Giorno, Eiichi Fukushima, Kenneth H. Klein, gymnastics;

Donald E. Mc Vicker, Paul

MURDERER'S ROW may have disappeared with Ruth and Gehrig, but it lives again on the UC nine. In the picture above returning veterans in the new uniforms, Wendell Marumoto, captain Dave Utley, John Broyles and George Gray flex their muscles and tote their bats for the benefit of the photographer.

tion and Bruce Colby at third.

Outfielders will be Dave Mazukelli, George Gray and Gil Levine. The battery will be John Broyles and Walt Walker. Later in the game Paul Hershall, Jerry Luxs and Chuck Youngquist will rotate the pitching chores.

Nine has strong bench

Bench strength is strong this year with sub-infielders Mario

Baur, Kurt Mc Michaels, Marks and Peter Gottlieb, outfielders Al Binford, Burt nick and Len Friedman.

Jeff and

Res This Year’s club looks like a winner to coach Anderson, and if they can brave the spring weather, we can expect a hustling and fighting ballclub this year.

For Sale — Jaguar XK120 twoseater sport convertible, 20 months old, birch grey with red leather, very low mileage, drives like a dream with jet power, excellent

condition,

cor,

$2150.00. Phone HY 3-9206 after 5:30 p.m.

The delightful story of a gent who went on a wild weekend with his fast-moving first loved named and took his wife along!

Dinah Sheridan • Kay Kendall John Gregson

in technicolor

Todoy ot;

6:30. 8:15. 10:00

Of ARBORN AI DIVISION

Students presenting their ID cards at box office will be admitted for 50c any week night. Saturdays and Sundays until 5 p.m.

K. Orsay, swimming;

Don Donderi, Morley J. Hoffman, Jerry E. Mehrens, wrestling.

Small Old English “C" Award: Robert O. Dunkel, basketball;

John D. Lyon, Arthur L, Waldman, fencing;

Roger O. Copel, Warren D. Orloff, Mark W. Schub, gymnastics;

Walter E. Deike, A. Edward Gotteman, Robert M. Herndon, Whitney Pope, swimming;

Charles P. Carlson, James F. Lear, Martin L. Liebowitz, wrestling.

Moyle credits Fall tennis for good team

Coach Bill Moyle has been watching candidates for the varsity tennis team in this first week of practice which is now ending. His conclusion: “We’ll have one of the better teams we’ve had in three or four years.”

Moyle attributes these good prospects for the coming season to the introduction of fall tennis last year. “It uncovered a lot of players we didn’t know about. As a result the boys have been practicing all winter,” he said.

Players at peak

“The fall’s a good time for several reasons. The weather is more predictable, and the players are at a peak of interest and condition as the result of spring and summer play,” he continued.

“As a matter of fact fall tennis made such a hit with everybody we played that I wouldn’t be surprised if tennis became an annual fall and spring event. We had the biggest tournament in eight years and produced a fine team which won all of their matches, compiling a 5-0 record,” he said.

20 compete for places

“We have about 20 players out this year, and although we lost Marty Orans, our number one, and Larry Buttonweiser, our number three, from last spring’s team, we have capable players and greater depth,” Moyle concluded.

Three major lettermen, George Stone, Bob Fox and Norm Strominger, are returning. Other candidates for the team are Duncan Burford, Howard Spaeth, Tom Zukowski, Chuck Werner, Bob Hartfield, Bob Kelso, Myron Howland, Rene Montjoie and Gerald Liderman. The last two boys are from Paris, France, and are in their first year at the University.

The tennis team will open the season on April 24 against De Pauw. Moyle expects Notre Dame, Beloit and De Pauw to provide the strongest competition for the Maroon netmen.

Maroon track team

spends busy interim;

triumphs two times

by Justin Johnson

There was no rest for the UC varsity track team over the interim as the Maroon runners won team championships in two large meets and sent relay teams to represent Chicago in two others.

On March 13, the trackmen won the Chicago-Midwest Conference Invitational Indoor Track Meet at the Field-House, running without four of their stars who had journeyed to Wisconsin to compete in the Milwaukee Journal Meet the same night

One week later the UC Track Club breezed through the Indoor AAU meet at the Field-House to take their second

straight team victory. Last Saturday, a capacity crowd at the

Chicago Stadium watched seven Maroon runners compete in the Chicago Daily News Relays.

Lamb second to Santee

The best performance by a Chicago runner in the Daily News meet was turned in by Lawton Lamb, former University of Illinois record holder. Lamb brought the huge crowd to its feet by coming from behind in the final lap of the Banker’s Mile to threaten the much-heralded Wes Santee, the University of Kansas distance runner who is conceded by sportswriters as the man most-likeli Lamb’s time was a very fast 4:

The mile-relay team of Ken Stapley, Phil Wyatt, Morgan Damerow and Dave Shepard ran an unofficial 3:20 to finish third behind Loyola and Wheaton. Frank Loomos, Chicago’s star hurdler, failed to place, but he is normally a low-hurdler and he was pitted in the highhurdles against Harrison Dillard, US, world and Olympic champion, and Willard Thompson, Big 10 champion.

Deike runs despite flu

Stapley competed in the 600 yard dash against Mal Whitfield, and Walt Deike, running despite an attack of flu, ran one and a quarter miles before dropping out in the strong two-mile field.

In the AAU meet on Saturday, March 20, the UC Track Club swamped all other competitors to take the team championship and bring another trophy to Bartlett Gymnasium. Final scores were Chicago 116, Bradley 63, Wheaton 46, Chicago CYO 39, Loyola 16, Northern Illinois 10 2/5, Chanute Field 10, Northwestern 9 and unattached runners 79 3/5.

UC sweeps highs

Turning point in the meet came when Loomos led three Chicago hurdlers in sweeping the 70 yard high-hurdles. Loomos’ time was :08.8. Earlier he had placed third in the 60 yard dash and led Ma-, roon scorers with 16 points.

Dave Shepard took the broadjump with a 20'9" leap, while Chicago muscle-men, Roger Forsythe and Joe Howard, were scoring 1-2 in the 56 pound weight. Forsythe, in upsetting the rest of the field, threw 25'8%" for his 10 point victory. Lamb, running e tsily, picked up second places in both the mile and two-mile.

UC wins over Midwest

Scoring in every event but the 880 yard relay, Chicago proved its supremacy over the Midwest Conference teams on March 13. Scores were Chicago 54, Carleton 36%, Monmouth 32, Cornell 28, Grinell 20%, Coe 12, Lawrence 6 and Ripon 6.

The two-mile relay team of Art Omohundro, Spike Pinney, John Meardon and Hal Higdon dashed about the track in 8:16.7 to set a new meet record. The distance/ to run the four-minute mije. 12.7.

Track star dies in plane crash

George Mc Cormick, anchor man of the mile relay team, died Friday morning in a plane crash in Monterrey, Mexico. Eighteen other persons were Skilled in the crash, among them Mc Cormick’s father, brother and cousin. They were returing from a fishing trip in Mexico to their home in Amarillo, Texas, when the crash occurred.

medley team of Bill Pozen, John Smother, Deike and Meardon had no trouble coming first to the tape in their event.

Loomos loses first lows

Loomos, high scorer for the meet, won the 60 yard dash with a six and a half second sprint, but lost to Kirk of Carleton in the lowhurdles. This was Loomos’ first defeat in the lows this season. Howard put the shot 44'10" to win that event, as UC’ers placed fourth and fifth. Deike won the two-mile while Sanders and Paul Babtist placed right behind him.

On that same evening the Maroon relay team placed second in the mile to Drake University. Lamb was nosed out at the tape by Truex of Ohio State in the mile, while famed FBI-man Fred Wilt ran third.

On March 16, the Maroons won over Wright Junior College easily, taking nine first places, 71%-32%. Coach Ted Haydon let some of his stars relax for the coming AAU meet, but Wright proved to be no opposition for the fleet-footed runners. George Mc Cormick ran his last race, winning the half-mile in 1:58.1 and Omahundro won the mile in 4:36.7. Ray Saunders won the two-mile while Pinney placed second, and the hurdles were taken by Don Trifone on the highs and Stapley on the lows.

a* cm Aviation Cadot.

Soo him while you can.

(Insert name and rank of leader of Selection Team) and Aviation Cadet Selection Team (insert number) are staying at (insert local address) for the next (insert no. of days). He will be available between the hours (insert time) to thosedesiring further information on career opportunities in the Air Force.

^f ARLt SJ^OJDICK

a ROBBEWAr-THi^ i$

YOUR MOST REPULSIVE

-IF YOU PULL ME I IN, THEY'LL THINK I YOU'RE CRAZYZZI WON'T TALK—SO E YOU CAN'T PROVE I'M NOT A NECKTIE.’?’

SURE I ON.*-A REAL. necktie wouldn't have LOOSE DANDRUFF.'?' GETWILPROOT CREAM-OIL, / CHARLIE.'." J

I CURSES.’?’ I I FORGOT.^ f IT DOES fl

REMOVE, r LOOSE _ DANDRUFF.*!?

RIAHT.T- KEEPS HAIR NEAT, BUT THIS FREE PLASTIC DISPENSER (WORTH 500 WITH 79< WILDROOT CREAM-OIL. A $1.3.9 j

VALUE— r^

^ 794 fr 1 BARBERS EVERYWHERE RECOMMEND ft WILDROOT CREAM-OLTO REMOVE LOOSE CANDRUFF © KELP HAIR WELL GROOMED ft THE CHICAGO MAROON

April 2, 1954

Classified For Rent

Newly decorated 2 - r o o m furnished apartment; also one large and one small sleeping room; 2 blocks from UC; linens, maid service; reasonable rent. 6107 Dorchester Avenue. PL 2-9641.

Student couple with 7-rm. apt. will rent suite: bedroom, study, bath. One—$36 mo., couple—$53.50 mo. Kitchen privileges, privacy. DO 3-4751.

1’4 - room apartment, kitchen, bath. $59.50 month. Call FA 4-3671.

Twa. furnished rooms, both very large, private bath. ^ block from campus. Phone HY 3-1864.

Rooms for men, pleasant, congenial; $75 up, linens included. Phi Sigma Delta. PL 2-9477.

Newly decorated private room, tile bath, semi-private study for girl in 8-room apartment. Share kitchen. $10 week. MU 4-5428 after 6 p.m.

Kitchenette, ideal for 1 or 2. 6055 S.

Dorchester, MI 3-9372.

£^w4^ ccitft/i^ Friday, April 2

Humboldt Club will present two German films, 4 p.m., at Wieboldt 408. They will deal with “The Marshall Plan’’ and “Berlin—June ’53 Revolt.” French language table will meet at the International House Dining room at 6 p.m.

A Wesak Festival, in celebration of the birth of Buddha, will take place at Mandel Hall, 7:30 p.m. Dr. Sunder Joshi will speak on “Buddha and Jefferson.” Admission is free.

Young Socialist League will hold a politcal meeting. 8 p.m., at Ida Noyes. Bogden Denltch, editor of “Challenge” and former national secretary of YPSL-SP will talk on “How Not to Fight Mc Carthyism.”

Hillel Foundation will hold a Sabbath Service at 7:45, followed by a fireside discussion at 8:30. “The Image of God in Modern Poetry” is the subject of the discussion that will be conducted by Henry Rago, assistant professor of Humanities. The meeting will be at 5715 Woodlawn.

Saturday, April 3

Pete Seeger will appear in a return engagement at Mandel Hall, 8 p.m. Members of the Folklore Society will also entertain. General admission is $1. Reserved seats are $1.50.

Young Socialist League will have a social, 9:30 p.m. Meier, 5426 Maryland, 3rd floor.

Sunday, April 4

University Religious Service will take place at Rockefeller Memorial Chapel, 11 a.m. Reverend J. S. Whale, of Cambridge University, will preach on “The Crown Rights of the Redeemer.” Italian Club Meeting will feature a talk on the “Venice Film Festival,” presented by Mrs. Selz, at International House, Room A, 3.30 p.m. Refreshments will be served.

Carillon Recital with James R. Lawson, carllloneur, will take place at Rockefeller Memorial Chapel, 4 p.m.

The Chapel Committee on Religion and the Arts will sponsor a panel on “The Saint John Passion” by Bach. The panel members are Professor Jaroslav Palikan, who will deal with theological Interpretation. Dr. Heinrich Fleischer, who will deal with muslcologlcal interpretation, and Richard Vikstrom, who will deal with problems of performance. Breasted Hall, 4 p.m.

“The Voice and Teachings of Gandhi” Is the subject of a record and discussion sponsored by Porter Graduate Fellowships. Room A of International House, 7:30 p.m.

SRP Caucus will be held at B-J, 7:30 p.m. It will deal with the SRP platform for the NSA elections, and is open to everyone.

“The Dybbuk” will be presented by the Playwrights Theatre Club, with the B’nai B’rith Hillel Foundation as sponsor. Mandel Hall, 8:30 p.m. All seats reserved. $2.50, $2, and $1.50. Tickets available at Hillel. Proceeds will go toward Combined Jewish Appeal. •

Monday, April 5

“Robin Hood s Merrie Men” will hold an organizational meeting, 4:30 p.m. at Law North. The group is concernedwith fighting Mc Carthyism.

German language table will be held 6 p.m. at International House dining room.

Swedish film, “The Road to Heaven.” will be presented at International House, 7 and 9 p.m. Admission Is 35 cents. 

“The Chosen People in Judaism and in Christianity” Is the subject of a talk that will be delivered by James W. Parkes at the Fourth Annual Charles W. Gilkey Lecture, sponsored by Hillel Foundation and the University of Chicago. Breasted Hall, 8 p.m.

Tuesday, April 6

Inter-Varsity Christian Fellowship will

sponsor a Speaker-Luncheon from 12:30 to 1:20. Mr. William Norton, a professor at Trinity Seminary, will talk on “Abraham and the Covenant.” Ida Noyes, third floor.

“Psychoanalysis and Modern Life” 1$ the second lecture in the William Ellery Channing lecture series: “Psychoanalysis and Modern Life.” Speaker is Seward Hiltner, Associate Professor of Pastoral Theology and Acting Dean, Federated Theological Faculty. Breasted Hall, 8 p.m.

Hillel Foundation will sponsor a Combined Jewish Appeal Workers meeting, 3:30-5:30 p.m. at the Hillel Foundation, 5715 Woodlawn. The meeting will Include a color film on Israel and a speaker.

Wednesday, April 7

Carillon Recital will take place at Rockefeller Chapel, 4:30 p.m. James R. Lawson is carillonneur.

Society for Social Research will sponsor a lecture at Social Sciences 122, 8 p.m. The topic Is “Some Aspects of Social Research in Israel.”

Thursday, April 8

The Academic Freedom Week Committee will hold an organizational meeting in the MAROON office, Reynolds Club at 4 p.m. to calendar events and prepare publicity.

Room, adjoining bath, clean, quiet, cook, home prlvilges. $8 week. 2 blocks UC. Girl. Phone evenings, 5-9, except Thursday. DO 3-7159.

For Sale

C*Lb with mattress, bathinette, playpen, buggy, kiddy-car, teeter-babe. Rea•onable, excellent condition. Barrington. Ext. 3378.

Argus C-3, like new. Includes f3.5 coated lens, sunshade, filters, case, flash gun. HO. PL 2-3790 evenings.

Today's Chesterfield is the

Thor Auto-Magic washing machine. $50. Allen, 6019 Ingleside, MU 4-5243.

Dae couch, $15; 2 rugs, $10, $35. Call FA 4-2252.

Slightly used teeter-babe with extra seat, $7. Feldman, DO 3-1322.

House with income, 4 blocks north of campus. Modest outside, contemporary luside. Redone with taste. Gas heat, M-ft. living room, woodburning fireplace, parquet floor, 2 bedrooms. Income from English basement apartment, $65. Low tax, maintenance, heating. Good neighbors. Low down payment arranged. Price $15,000. DO 3-4335.

Blonde wood dropleaf dinette table, opens to 52"x52". Good condition, $30. DO 3-0338.

Lovely diamond ring, .45 carat set in white gold. Less than half price. $100. DO 3-0338.

Radio-phono combination, kitchen set, oriental rug, chairs, baby furniture, traverse rod. Lipson, FA 4-5880, 6753 Merrill.

V. M. 3-speed automatic record changer.

New pickup. Will sacrifice. Contact C. Dayton, B-J, Room 512.

Wanted

Tutoring in English (conversation). Will pay fees or exchange for French. Call HY 3-2142.

Guitar, reasonably good condition, preferably under $20. Call PL 2-4017 after five, ask for Martha.

Metronome, cheap. Int House, ext. 315.

Furnished two, three bedrooms, near University of Chicago, September, 1954June, 1955. MU 4-1407.

World Book Encyclopedia, 1947 or later edition. Write John Stager, 155 Mc Intyre Court, Valparaiso, Indiana.

Help Wanted

Woman to care for 2 girls, 1 and 2 years, 3 days a week. Conant, 6004 Kenwood, mornings.

Secretary, Foreign Student Adviser’s office. International .House. Mature, type, take shorthand. Call Skardon, FA 4-8200.

Student to work part time in SG Service Center, 11:30-2:30, M-F. 90 cents hour. Call Ext. 1068.

Services

Mathematics. Special instruction to. fit your mathematical needs. Individual or group sessions. Albert Soglin, ST 26727.

Portraits, any creative photography. Low cost. High quality. Quick service. Act now! Joe Wolf, ES 5-1615.

Tutoring Nat Sci I, physics, math. Call PL 2-3790 evenings.

Teacher will care for your children (1 or 2) for 8 to 10 hour day, $1 per hour with luncheon in my home. 6004 Kenwood. Mrs. Bruce Stewart.

Personals

Student organized seminar for interested tutorial OMP students. Cobb 103 Monday, April 12 at 4 p.m.

Lost

White and red-brown striped cat. Please call PL 2-3790.

Worth Remembering Sunday, April 4th 3:30 P.M.

Jefferson the Biosopher.* His message for our times Presented by Robert Langer

Sunday, April 11, 3:30 p.m.

VASHTI Mc COLLUM

Author of ''One Woman's Fight" Victor in historic Supreme Court Mc Collum Case", speaking on: — Admission Free —

Religious Friendship Hour 306 S. Wabash Room 1310

"Chesterfields for Me!"

\Af\IJ Ha UI1 L •"<•• m "tm Caina ^y MVW ^7^x44^ Mutiny Court Martial"

The cigarette tested and approved by 30 years of scientific tobacco research. ^ K

CHESTERFIELD

Msrrmrma