Student activities

keynotes AF week

Two thousand students and faculty members have signed reaffirmations of the Bill of Rights, and the campus has been flooded by thousands of leaflets, during the past five days of Academic Freedom Week.

Last night a large audience in Mandel Hall heard Leroy • Gore, editor of the Sauk City Star, of Sauk City, Wisconsin, tell about the “Joe must go” movement in Wisconsin. Gore was instrumental in the launching of the movement. Gore’s talk was followed by a panel discussion by four UC professojs, Bruno Bettelheim, Karl Llewelyn, Harold Urey, and Warner Wick on “academic freedom and the disciplines.”

Karl Rodman, chairman of the Academic Freedom Committee, commented on the weeks activities, saying: “The University of Chicago has earned a big green

University of Chicago, April 16, 1954

NS A elections this

The election of UC delegates and alternates to the National Student Association (NSA) will take place this Thursday and Friday. To be elected are five delegates and five alternates to the annual Student Congress and ten alternates to the Illinois regional NSA organization. (See candidate list on page 4.)

This year’s NSA’s Congress will be at Iowa State College in Ames, Iowa, August 22 to 31.

At the Congress students will have the opportunity to exchange information and discuss proposals for student action in areas of interest to the student.

Problems with which the Congress will concern itself range from academic freedom, the running of student governments, elimination of discriminatory practices in education, to relations of US and foreign students.

The NSA is the largest American student organization. More than 300 college and university student bodies having a combined enrollment of over 1,000 students are represented by the NSA. The NSA was founded at UC in 1948.

The areas of problems to be discussed at NSA are divided among twenty-two subcommissions. Resolutions originating in subcommissions are then submitted to one of four main commissions and then go a plenary of all the Congress delegates.

At the congress two main types of resolutions are considered, those which are to be executed by the national officers of NSA and those which are recommendations to member schools and regions.

The Congress meets once a year and forms the basic policies for NSA, but regional meetings are held during the year. The regions are usually guided by national NSA recommendations, but may act independently within the respective regions.

Member schools are represented at the Congress by one to seven

Groan* mingle with yawn* a* these sleepy B-J boys stretch to the sky of 7 a.m. The calisthenics on the Midway — which has served to build appetites both for breakfast and back-to-bed — was the suggestion of George Athanson (center). See “i J," page 2

feather in its cap!" There are few people left, on this campus who have not participated in one way or another in Academic Freedom Week, either by attending one of the numerous events, reaffirming the Bill of Rights, or simply reading and discussing an article or leaflet.

Dos Passes talks

John Dos Passos, American novelist and historian, will give a William Vaughn Moody lecture, “The Classics Aie Nearer Than You Think" at 8:30 p.m. Thursday in Mandel Hall, admission free.

NSA polling places given

Thursday, April 22

Burton Holl

4:45 p.m.-7:30 p.m.

C-Group (Kelly)

11:00 a.m. - 1:45 p.m.

Cobb Holl

9:15 o.m. - 4:00 p.m.

Harper West

2:00 p.m. -4:15 p.m.

Judson Hall

4:45 p.m.-7:30 p.m.

Law School lounge

9:15 a.m.-1:15 p.m.

Mandel Corridor

9:15 a.m.-7:30 p.m.

Friday, April 23 /

Business School

1:00 p.m. - 3:30 p.m.

Cobb Hall

9:15 a.m. - 4:00 p.m. Mandel Corridor

9:15 o.m. - 6:30 p.m.

Med. Students lounge

4:00 p.m. - 6:00 p.m.

Hitchcock lounge

4:30 p.m. - 6:45 p.m.

Social Science

9:30 a.m. - 5 p.m.

Swift Halt

9:15 o.m. - 12:45 p.m.

delegates and an equal number of alternates, depending on the size of the school. Delegates have speaking and motion privileges in subcommissions, commissions, and plenaries, alternates have speaking privileges, only, in the subcommission and commissions.

Dancing, jazz to raise money for WUS drive

The World University Service (WUS) is sponsoring a dance on April 24 and a jazz concert on April 25, to supplement its present fund drive.

The dance will take place in the Cloister Club at Ida Noyes 9 p.m. and will feature Stu Clayton and his orchestra. Although contracts have not yet been signed, Danny Thomas is expected to appear.

The jazz concert will be held in Mandel Hall at 2:30 p.m. It is titled “Duos in Jazz” and will present such well known jazz entertainers as Baby Dodds, King Colax, Paul Bascomb, and the Leek Brothers.

Proceeds of the dance and concert and the money raised from the fund drive will be used to aid students in universities in Asia, Europe, and the Middle East.

SG places constitutional changes on NSA ballot

Student Government voted Tuesday to put more questions on the April 22-23 ballots, including the question of whether there shall be five members of the Student Assembly elected from the campus at large.

The four amendments to the SG Constitution were'recommended by the government’s constitutional commission, headed by Allen Coleman (soc sci, former SG president and current president of the Independent Students League (ISL).

With the independents in SG voting mainly against -the idea, the Assembly voted 14-11 to put the question of adding the five members at large to SG. A chance in the Faculty - Student - Administration Court term was put on the ballot by voice vote.

Propose by-elections

A 17-10 vote placed on the ballot the question of running by-elections to fill vacancies in SG, with the SG executive council making interim appointments.

The question of whether the president of the Assembly can initiate the removal of executive officers was placed on the ballot by majority vote.

Need two-thirds vote

In order to become part of the constitution, the questions must receive a two- thirds favorable vote in next week’s balloting.

Candidates in the National Student Association election can withdraw until 5 p.m. today. If they change their minds afterward, Marlin Smith (ISL-law),chairman of the election and rules committee, said their names will remain on the ballot.

Debate membership lisk

Paul E. Breslow (SRP-soc sci), minority leader, moved amendments to the Student Code which would have kept membership lists of campus organizations out of the hands of investigators unless the lists were subpoenaed, and which set up other safeguards for the lists.

After defeating Breslow’s motion, the assembly voted to send

UC physicists rally to aid Oppenheimer on disloyalty charge

Two prominent University of Chicago scientists have come to the defense of Dr. J. Robert Oppenheimer, director of the Institute of Advanced Studies at Princeton University who has been suspended by the Atomic Energy Commission from his post as director of the Los Alamos atomic research projects for reasons of security. The two men are Samuel K. Allison, director of the Institute for Nuclear Studies, and Cyril S. Smith, director of the Institute for the Study of Metals.

While recognizing the necessity for loyalty investigations, Allison believed that an investigation “would completely establish the reliability of Dr. Oppenheimer.” He said the “nation owes him a debt which it can never adequately repay. I do not know of any other person in the United States who could have provided the brilliant leadership at Los Alamos that he did, working in selfless devotiop, and endangering his precarious health.”

Smith defended Oppenheimer’s right to decide that an all-out program of hydrogen bomb development was ill-advised. Part of the charges against Oppenheimer include his reticence to proceed with H-bomb development. (The MAweek

a letter to Dean of Students Robert Manning Strozier embodying SG’s attitude on the protection of membership lists.

Urges permanent policy

The resolution urges that the University adopt a permanent policy of refusing to divulge membership lists without subpoenas, using its discretion in the furnishing of membership information about individual students, and destroying membership lists at the end of the school year.

Run-for-fun' boys crush Chanute fliers

by Justin Johnson

The varsity track team gave a squad from Chanute Air Force Base the 15-event “run-for-fun” test last Saturday on Stagg Field and found them milder, much milder. Leaving their planes in Rantoul, Ill., the airmen were unable to keep up with the jet-propelled Maroon speedsters, as Chicago breezed through its first outdoor victory of the season, 93-38.

All in all, 20 Chicago runners united in capturing 10 firsts, 11 seconds, and 11 thirds, slamming both hurdles, the shot put, and the two-mile run.

Joe Howard, Roger Forsyth, and Clive Gray set the stage for the contest by winning all places in the shot put. Howard threw 43'^" to keep victory from the grasp of his teammate, Forsyth.

In the discus event, Gray came out of semi-retirement to send the platter spinning 114’1 lzs" for first place, with Forsyth again being relegated to a lesser role, this time third place. The weightmen completed their chores in the javelin throw, where Larry Shaderwofsky placed second for Chicago with Howard third.

Higdon wins mile run

In the distance events, Hal Higdon won the mile in 4:31.9 in spite of a heavy wind, with Spike Pinney not far behind in second place. Loose-jointed Jim Flynn had little trouble running his own race

Urey hits

AEC inquiry

Harold C. Urey, Martin A. Ryerson Distinguished Service Professor of Chemistry, has added his voice to the defense of Oppenheimer. He called the present investigation “the most unjust and*also the most foolish thing that has occurred in all the current hysteria.”

Were he disloyal, Urey said, “the FBI and Military Intelligence should have an iron clad case against him after the ten years and more during which they have known the facts which have now been made public.”

Urey told the American people to “realize how seriously our science and technology have been damaged by the events of the last few days If we wish to retain the physical, moral and intellectual leadership of the world, w e should grow up and stop acting like hysterical children.”

ROON reported April 2 that Hbomb development was advanced only upon the recommendation of Dr. Edward Teller, a former UC Professor.)

Smith, who was a member of the General Advisory Committee, which Oppenheimer directed,

from 1946 to 1952 (when the decisio was made), stated: “As seen with the hindsight of 1954 the recommendation may have been wrong, but that it was arrived at honestly by Oppenheimer and others I have no doubt The

resolution of honest differences of opinion among informed men is the very basis of democracy and such discussion is difficult enough under atomic secrecy without persecuting one who proposed a less precipitops approach that that ultimately adopted by higher authority.”

Smith continued: “The action of the AEC will discourage free discussion of both politics and science; if followed through it will effectively suppress the very originality of thought that gave rise to the bomb. Any action that tends to discourage imaginative scientists from devoting their talents to public service cannot help but do terrible harm to the future security of the country.”

as he took the two-mile in 10:35.3, with Paul Baptist and Ray Sanders gamboling across the finish line together to tie for second.

Arnie Meardon and Art Omohundro met their match in Olympic star John Barnes in the 880, but nevertheless ran creditably to finish second and third, respectively. The situation was repeated in the 440 where Barnes, Chanute ace, managed to stave off a bid by Ken Stapley and Morgan Damerow at the finish.

Maroons slam both hurdles

In the high and low hurdles, Dan Trifone, Sherry Gray, Stapley, John Lathrop, Frank Loomos, and Justin Johnson all displayed their talents, taking everything in the timber-trials. Stapley took the 220 yd. lows with little trouble, Johnson finishing first in the highs.

This Saturday, the cindermen will meet a strong squad from Washington University at 12:30 p.m. on Stagg Field. April 16, 1954

Speakers join against Mc Carthyism disagree about working with 'left' by Dovid Schlessinger

Senator Joseph Mc Carthy and his creed were friendless in an academic freedom discussion at Rosenwald 2 last Tuesday afternoon; all participants strongly advocated academic freedom, defined by one speaker as “the absolute right to search for truth, no matter where that search may lead.” Six speakers and the organizations they represented included, in the order that they spoke, Eli Stein (Students for Democratic Action), Gerald Humphrey (Young Republicans), Earl Durham (Labor Youth League), Marcus Raskin (Young Dem Court invalidates regulations added to Code by Birenbaum

The Court struck down five regulations drawn up by Director of Student Activities William Birenbaum and an article in the by-laws of the Student Assembly, when it declared both sets of rules unconstitutional Friday.

Birenbaum had added the five paragraphs, dealing mainly

ocrats), Bogdan Denitch (Young Socialist League), and Don Anderson (Socialist Party).

Stein said “Mc Carthyism is a major threat to the long-range success of political democracy”; Humhrey, that he “deplores the use of name-calling; there must be an absolute right to search for truth on the basis of a standard of integrity”; Durham, “Witchhunts are chipping away at the foundations of freedom”; Raskin, “We want to seek to find out fundamental problems and their answers, a rational policy which cannot work in an atmosphere of hysteria”; Denitch,t“All who truly believe in academic freedom should join to fight for it”; and Anderson, “Everyone must have the freedom not to conform and to find truth for himself.”

What it is; what to do

Although the speakers agreed in censuring Mc Carthyism and championing academic freedom, opinions differed about the exact nature of Mc Carthyism and the most preferable way to safeguard academic freedom.

Stein rejected two “extreme” views of Mc Carthyism (“a power struggle in the Republican party” and “a manifestation of our foreign policy”), stating that he considers it a totalitarian movement which, by method if not purpose, offers a threat to all of America’s democratic institutions. For the purpose of defeating Mc Carthyism, Stein suggested a “practical” attack to “make un-Mc Carthyism a necessity.” This attack, he suggested, would supplement ideological refutation of witch-hunting. “The recession,” Stein concluded, “may defeat Mc Carthy.” ‘We too wish Joe would go*

Humphrey agreed with Stein in Wishing that “Joe would go,” pointing out that the responsible leadership of the Republican Party has repudiated his methods. The YR representative added, however, that the people, “recently educated to citizenship,” still want to know what is going on in relation to Communist spy infiltration, etc.; unfortunately, “they have seen a way to an answer in Mc Carthy’s tactics.”

Durham sees Mc Carthyism

“like Hitlerism,” an expression of “fascist, totalitarian, reactionary, monopoly interests” which “puts over the idea of a Communist conspiracy in an attempt to gain support for itself.” The issue of Communism, Durham claimed, is a “false issue; the real issues are peace, security, and democracy. The LYL speaker continued with a brief exposition of his own conception of the way to obtain these goals, claiming that “we must change the motive force of men from profits to social welfare.”

Judge teachers by capability

Raskin, limiting himself to the

more directly suggested topic of academic freedom, proposed that the criteria for judging teachers on the university level be dissociated from any consideration of political attitudes. In' grade school and high school, “where education is really indoctrination,” political attitudes should be considered only as those attitudes may affect teaching abilities.

Denitch broadened the scope of the topic once more by claiming that Mc Carthyism is “only a facet of the attack on academic freedom.” “Mc Carthyism,” Denitch

See "Mc Carthy," page 4

BJ students stretch at sunrise across midway

See picture, page 1

Spring is budding on the Midway. Each morning more than 20 hardy residents of Burton-Judson Courts gather for early morning calisthenics.

Startling the early birds, human and feathered, by gathering opposite Burton-Judson five days a week at a bright and early 7 a.m., the group starts with a short warm-up and then

with social affairs, to the Student Code and regulation. A brief submitted to the court by Elias M. Stein (ISL-Phy Sci) on behalf of Student Government, held that the student activities director had no right to add the rules because the administration may enact temporary regulations only in cases of “urgent necessity.”

In effect, the court ruled that there was no emergency when Birenbaum added his rules. Before handing down its ruling, the court noted that Birenbaum had failed to submit any defense of his action.

Article X of the by-laws would have given the court jurisdiction over decisions of the committee on elections and rules dealing with election violations.

Marlin Smith (ISL-Law) argued in favor of having the court take jurisdiction, but questioning indicated that the court was not convinced it had such power. Its decision declared the article null

and void.

The court refused to consider a third case, brought by the Student Government, which asked for a decision on whether Birenbaum or the Student Union were responsible for having signs placed in restricted areas before the Washington Promenade in February.

Students presenting their ID cords at box office will be admitted for 50c any week night. Saturdays and Sundays until 5 p.m.

puts in a brisk 20 minutes of side-straddle hops, push-ups, burpees, duck-walking, etc.

Cadence is counted by Chamberlin House Athanson, organized handed.

staff member George who has sparked and the movement single“The only purpose is healthy exercise outdoors in the morning air, now that it’s spring again,” Athanson said. "It’s purely volun I Disc

1367 E. 57th St.

•

THE RECORD OF THE WEEK

Florence Foster

Jenkins

Soprano Arias

LRT 7000 $2.99

Test Tube Mysteries

“Always loved to probe the unknown, so my job as secretary to the head chemist is made for me.... Katie Gibbs has the happy knack of matching the girl and the job.”

Every year hun dreds of college women use Gibbs

secretarial training to secure the right job and assure rapid promotion. Special Course for College Women. Write College Dean for •‘Gibbs Girls at Work."

KATHARINE GIBBS

SECRETARIAL

BOSTON 16. 90 Mariboro Mh St. NEW YORK 17. 290 Park Ave

CHICAGO 11. 51 E. Superior St. PROVIDENCE 6. 155 Anted St

MONTCLAIR, N J , 33 Plymouth St

Get hot with a IXF

this se^on

6125 KENWOOD AVENUE

MAXIMUM DISTANCE

POWERED BY TRU-TENSION WINDING

ABSOLUTELY UNIFORM PERFORMANCE

PERFECT

BALANCE

LIFETIME

WHITENESS

PROVEN

LEADERSHIP

Spaldin G

PL 2-5960

*

For maximum distance with durability play TOP-FLITE.* t>OT* and TOP-FLITE sold through golf professionals only.

IAW’.-now,

YOU’LL

ONLY GIVE ME MUFASMUCH TROUBLE .7

4 WHEN I * THEY I HANG YOU,’ TOMORROWY-YOU'RE NOT GOING TO SAW " ME. IN HALF, ARE YOU, FOSDKKS? -ONLY AN INHUMAN BEAST WOULD DO THAT// tary and everybody is welcome.”

Athanson organized a similar project two years ago with fifty men and women. “We hope that some of the girls’ houses will join us again this year,” he said.

The group has more than doubled in size since the program started on Monday. It includes members of most of the B-J houses, both college and divisional, according to Athanson.

ALEXANDER'S THE GREAT

PLACE TO EAT OFF CAMPUS OPEN DAY AND NIGHT

YOUR HOSTS WILL BE

GEORGE KYROS

PETE HRISTAKOS

1137 - 39 East 63rd Street HARRY A. ZISOOK & SONS

University District Renting Office

MAYFLOWER HOTEL

Let us help you

GET OUT OF THE ROOMING HOUSES AND SUBSTANDARD BUILDINGS IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD For the convenience and accommodation of the Students, Faculty and Employees of the University we have opened a University District Renting Office to serve you in obtaining better housing.

Come in and let us know what your requirements are so that we may assist you.

AVAILABLE NOW AND/OR MAY 1st

Hotel rooms with private bath and shower Sgl.—$8 per wk.; dbl.—$12 per wk.

Hotel apts. with switchboard and maid service

1 rm. furnished apt. at $73

3 rm. furnished apt. at $100

office hours 9 a.m. to 5 p.m Monday thru Friday THERE IS NO CHARGE FOR THIS SERVICE

main office

HARRY A. ZISOOK & SONS

Real Estate

Serving Chicago since 1907

^FARLt SS^OSDICK by AL CAPP

STOP, ANYFACE "- IF YOU SAW ME IN HALF, I'LL STARVE TO DEATH?* ONE CAN'T LIVE ON MY SALARY, MUCH LESS

you MEAN TWICE

A^ MUCH//

STICK’EM a Wf- 

o

? WGHTSf

For scorecards you’ll be proud of, play the ball that gives you all these advantages:

WE ARE MERELY-'

GOING TO APPLY U WILDROOT CREAMOIL, CHA W-IE—SO YOUR. HAIR WILL 1 LOOK neat, but not- ‘^Hf-GREASY-’f

'd

z

WMr*H Crwm W is Mwriw’s favorite hair tonic. It’s non-alcoholic. Contains soothing lanolin. Crooms hair, relievos dryness, removes loose dandruff. €et WUdrool Cream-Oil, Charlie! low M 2H

^

I April 16, 1954

THE CHICAGO MAROON

Page 3

Kharasch appointed to top chemistry post

Morris S. Kharasch, chemist at the University of Chicago, has been named the first Gustavus F. and Ann M. Swift distinguished service professor of chemistry at the University, Chancellor Lawrence A. Kimpton announced Monday.

Kharasch, a member of the UC faculty for the past 26 years, was made a full professor in 1930 and the Carl William Eisen Jewry to celebrate

ancient Pesach rite

• SPEAKERS

• AMPLIFIERS

national House, Woodworth’s Bookstore, and the Settlement

John Huston's

greatest

great” —

Life Mag

and ”100 MEN AND A GIRL

LAKE PARK at 53rd

WHERE THE U OF C MEETS TO EAT

• RECORD CHANGERS Tape and Disc Recorders and Accessories

Net or Below Net Prices

ROckwell 2-2262 NABORHOOD TV 4211 West Roosevelt Road

"One of the few movies which genuinely deserves to be called

CANOE TRIPS

1225 E. 63rd

HY 3-5353 |

•**•**♦••♦••♦* *!*•♦* •

drath professor of chemistry in 1936.

The distinguished service professorship was established under the will of the late Charles H. Swift as a tribute to his father, the early Chicago packer who helped to found the University.

Among a succession of discoveries in both theoretical and practical chemistry procured by Kharasch, an organic chemist, are: chemicals to prevent the formation of “popcorn” polymers that clog the pipes in synthetic rubber plants; merthiolate, the most widely used antiseptic in American hospitals; contributions to the development of the cold rubber process; isolation and preparation of the drug ergonevine, widely used in childbirth; new methods of producing mercury compounds which have proved to be the first efficient seed disinfectant, a discovery which has saved farmers an estimated billion dollars annually.

During World War II Kharasch developed 300 of the 1,500 proposed chemical warfare compounds examined in the secret toxicity laboratory set up at UC

HLFIDELITY

Components

Coming: "ROME 11 O'CLOCK

’ *♦* *•* *♦• ••• •• *♦* *♦**♦*•♦**♦**♦* %*•♦•

When you pause...make if count...have a Coke

DRINK

w

UMHOIWliij

WIRE FLOWERS HOME FOR EASTER

We found

a comb

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY Of THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY The Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Chicago, Inc. ,

O 1953, Th# Coca-Cola Company

Mitzie 9s Flower Shop FROM

Jimmy 9s

1301 E. 55th

Ml 3-4020

1172 E. 55th

by the National Defense Research Council.

Elected in 1946 to the National Academy of Sciences, the highest honor in the scientific field, Kharasch was cited by the President of the United States for his scientific contributions during World War II. He was also awarded the John Scott medal of the city of Philadelphia and the Theodore William Richards medal of the American Chemical Society.

Passover (Pesach), the holiday commemorating the joyous exodus of the Jews from Egyptian slavery, will be celebrated for eight days beginning tomorrow at sundown. During this period certain foods are prohibited, such as bread and cake. Matzoh (unleavened bread) is a remembrance of the hasty departure which did not allow time for the bread to rise.

The Hillel Foundation, 5715 Woodlawn, will conduct its annual Seder at 6:30 p.m. on Sunday. The Seder is a traditional meal notable for particular foods

Keisen to deliver Walgreen talks here next week

“The Foundations of Democracy” will be the subject of the next series of Walgreen lectures. They will be given by Hans Keisen, professor of international law at the Naval War Coliege.

“Democracy and Philosophy” is the subject of the first two lectures, to be held on April 19 and 21. On April 23 and 26, Kelson will discuss “Democracy and Religion,” and on April 28 and 30 “Democracy and Economics” will be Keisen’s topic. All of the lectures will be held in Soc. Sci. 122 at 4:30 p.m.

symbolizing the sorrows the Jews knew in Egypt, and more important, their rejoicing for their release from bondage.

Today at 7:45 p.m. there will be Sabbath services in the upstairs synagogue. Following the services the Passover Oneg will begin at 8:30 p.m. with poetry readings by Stanley Gervirtz and Aryeh Motzkin. Festival, April 29, at Orchestra Hall.

Passover lunches will be served > Tickets are on sale at Orchestra Hall, Reynolds Club, Interat Hillel from 11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m., Monday through Friday. Reservations for both the Seder and lunches must be in by this afternoon at 3 p.m. The Seder is $1.80 for Hillel members and $2.00 for non-members; lunches are $.80 for members, and $1.00 for nonmembers. .

FOOD

no 7.9071 HYDE PARK THEATRE

STARTING FRIDAY, APRIL Ki

John Huston's latest "Beat the Devil" with Humphrey Bogart Jennifer Jones - Robert Morley Gina Lo Hobrigida

"A screwball classic” — Time Mag

Dewey to explain new AB, BS degrees

College students who wish additional information about the new joint degree programs are invited to special meetings by John R. Davey, dean of students in the college.

The biological sciences degree will be discussed next Tuesday, the physical sciences degree on next Thursday, and the humanities degree on Tuesday, April 27.

Students now classified in the college or who enter the college before the autumn quarter of 1954 may qualify for the AB degree of the college by completing the requirements in effect at the time of their admission, as specified in terms of individual programs of comprehensive examinations to be passed. The same requirements constitute the general studies portion of the new undergraduate programs for (1) the college AB for tutorial studies and (2) the “professional option” AB of the college. Students may obtain both the present (old) and the new “joint bachelor’s degrees” (the AB awarded jointly by the college and the division of the humanities, or the SB awarded jointly by the college and either the division of the biological sciences or the division of the physical sciences) may do so; or students may transfer, either at the end of

Tickets to Sayao concert to be sold at student rates

Bidu Sayao, Brazilian-born Metropolitan Opera singer, and members Df the Chicago Symphony Orchestra, will be featured at the University of Chicago Settlement Benefit’s Spring

House. Mail orders may be sent to the Settlement House, 4630 Mc Dowell Avenue. Onehundred twenty-five tickets (usually $4.80) are available for $2.50 to students presenting their ID cards at the Student Government Student Service Center.

The Spring Festival will mark Miss Sayao’s first appearance in the United States in five years. The first part of the program will be devoted to the singing of some of her operatic recordings. Latin

"The Treasure of the Sierra Madre" '

with Humphrey Bogart Walter Huston

the present quarter or at some later point, into one of the new “joint degree” programs and seek only the new degree. Those who wish to obtain a new “joint degree” only, will have their requirement of general studies (comprehensive examinations in the cot lege) adjusted so that examinations in excess of those specified by the new program which they enter will not be required.

Students who expect to complete the requirements of the college for the present (old) AB this quarter should apply for admission to the division or professional school of their choice in the usual way; but if they seek one of the new degrees, they should specfy that purpose when making application. Such students will not register for further courses until the quarter in which they start their residence in the division or school.

American music will comprise the latter portion of the program.

Patrons of the benefit are invited to a reception following the concert. Guest of honor at the reception will be Dr. J. Carlos Muniz, Brazilian ambassador to the United States.

Int. House plans hikes to Palos

Park, arboretum

Two week-end hiking trips have been scheduled by International House. On Sunday, April 25, there will be an excursion to Palos Park. The appointed meeting is at 9 a.m. in the International House lobby. The hikers will join the American Youth Hostel group at the 63rd and Halsted elevated station to catch the bus leaving for Palos Park. Hikers may bring lunches.

The trip scheduled to meet Sunday, May 2, at 10:30 a.m. in the lobby, will lead to Morton’s Arboretum. If there are not enough cars to drive to the Arboretum, hikers will meet the Youth Hostel group in Union Station and take an 11:20 a.m. Burlington train to Lisle. Lunches may be brought and eaten in the picnic grove. For registration and further information contact George Karreman, Do. 3-6638.

Quetico-Superior Wilderness. Only $5.00 per man day for complete outfit, aluminum canoe and food. For free folder and map write: Bill Rom, CANOE COUNTRY OUTFITTERS, Box 717 C, Ely, Minnesota. April 16, 1954

Issued once weekly by the publisher. The Chicago Maroon, at the publication office, 5706 South University Avenue, Chicago 37, Illinois. Telephones: Editorial Office, Midway 3-0800, Ext. 1010; Business and Advertising Offices, Midway 3-0800, Ext. 1009. Distributed free of charge, and subscriptions by mail, $3 per year. Business Office hours: 1 to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday.

Present position of Independent Students League

Arthur Brown editor-in-chief

News editors: Naomi Birnbaum, Allen Jonger

News Feature editor: Nellie Stoneman

Feature editor: Daniel Queen

Sports editor: Paul A. Hoffman

Copy editor: Joy Burbach

Advertising manager: Reva Brown

Production manager: Joanna Herlihy

Page one assistant: Mitchell Slein

Copy staff: Jerry Ex, Pam Brown, Jack Burbach, William Brandon, Jeon Carlsson

Photographer: Joe Wolf

Editorial staff: Brina Boilin, Robert Bloch, Davis Bobrow, Poul Breslow, Stephen Cohen, Diane Epstein, Al Fortier, Lennie Friedman, Suzanne Friedman, Miriam Garfin, Richard Herwitt, Ralph B. Hirsch, Roberta Hopkins, Brina Jaffee, Justin Johnson, Jon Mojde, Neol Mermoll, Arnie Matanky, Spike Pinney, Elaine Pomper, Bob Quinn, Karl Rodman, Wolf Roder, David Schlessinger, Judy Smith, Warren Spochner, Frank G. Ternenyi, John Twomey

Letters

Presents reasons for quitting

Last week’s MAROON issue quoted me as saying that “ ’not enough work is being done’ ” by ISL, and that as a result <M this, I had resigned from the party. The author of this story never interviewed me on my reasons for quitting ISL, and I never made any public statement about my resignation from the party. Furthermore, I never made any statement in which it was charged that SG or ISL (which the case may be) was “not doing enough work.” It would be helpful to MAROON readers if you would label your fiction as such.

My actual reason for quitting ISL is that I got disgusted with the petty party politics which ISL has been playing. Among the more outstanding examples of such conduct have been: 1) the indictment of SRP for violating provisions in the Student Code which were so minor that Mr. Birenbaum unknowingly gave SRP permission to do the “illegal’’ acts, and; 2) the refusal of the ISL-controlled Executive Council to fill an SRP vacancy on the grounds that someone had challenged the validity of a by-law compelling the Council to replace resigning SG members with people from the same party, whenever possible. The real reason for this refusal was th* desire of certain members of ISL to keep out as many SRP’ers as possible while the ISL-backed amendment 135 the Michigan Plan was being voted upon.

It is needless to recount other “maneuvers” for which ISL has become so famous The above two instances should be sufficient to give you some indication of what made continued membership in

ISL so felt it party.

increasingly distasteful that I necessary to walk out of the

Sol Hirsh

Editor's

note

The HAROON regrets that reader Hirsh’s position was misrepresented in the quotation, which was printed in

good faith, and is glad to have fuller exposition of his views.

this

Shun party labels

A short time ago we decided to

run

as Independent candidates for the position of National Delegate to the NSA In the forthcoming elections. But our petitions were not accepted without comment; Instead it was “suggested” by various ••influential’* people that we drop frdm the race before it had begun. In fact when one of our petitions was banded in at the SG office it was reluctantly accepted with the comment: •‘Independent, eh? You’d better quit now ’cause you don’t have a chance agal i St the party.” But why not, was the Astonished answer. A patronizing •mil# was the reply.

W% believe that we, as well as any ethet student at the University, have as ivuch right to seek office as does a member of a particular political group. In fact it is on this promise that we intend to ^tay in the race and let the UC voter decide on our ability for the office.

Mc Carthy

(from page 2) continued, “arises from the economic policies established during the Truman, Franklin Roosevelt, and Eisenhower administrations* policies which set up as a necessity production for war.” Such policies, according to the YSL, make academic freedom impossible. Instead, we have “the ridiculous situation where each group says to every other ‘We have purged more Communists than you have named’ at the same time that all claim to champion academic freedom.”

Denitch advocated a nationwide, “truly sincere” campaign to •fight against witch-hunts and the basic attack on civil liberties.

Anderson, representing the Socialist Party, made the further point that freedom is necessary for all, that “we are not free unless we are all free,” and that “democracy necessitates academic freedom for everyone.”

Richard E Ward managing editor

MSA Candidates

NATIONAL DELEGATES ISL

Monica Kozasa Bruce Larkin Jon Metros Eli Stein

Independent Franklin Loomos Philip Wyatt

NATIONAL ALTERNATES

ISL Joseph Brenner Albert Fortier Emil Johnson Howard Turner Barbara Voge If anger

REGIONAL ALTERNATES ISL

Ston Fox Peter H. Greene James Handler Joli Lasker Gilbert Lincoln Allison Logan Ursula Mathienson Nona M. Miller Bob Reichler Sabina Wagner

Referendum to decide way to fill vacancies

The following amendments will appear on the NSA ballot by a vote of SG.

They require a two-third majority to pass.

1. Term of court: Amend the Statute of Powers, by substituting in Article II, Section 2: “December 1” for “November 15’’ and “November 30’’ for “November 14.”

Members at large: Amend the constitution, by adding to Article II, A, 4, “There shall be five members of the Assembly elected at large.”

3. Executive officers of the Assembly:

2.

Amend the Constitution, by adding to Article II, F: “2. The president of Student Government may initiate the removal from office of any elected executive officer of the Student Government* The president must present a written statement of his reasons to the assembly, and the removal from office becomes effective only if it is approved by a majority of the Assembly within two weeks of the notification.”

Frank Loomos Phil Wyatt

MIDWAY 3-4433

PHOTOGRAPHERS

1171 EAST 55th STREET

Come and See Us

Besuchen Sie Uns

Visitanos

Sam anti George eon open any bottle in 27 different languages

Ml 3-0524

Ballantine Ale and Beer

The Independent Students League (ISL), since it was organized in 1948, has been the leader in Student Government and in the delegations which the University sends to the PSA congresses each summer. ISL has always recognized that NSA, as an association of students, does not have the power to eliminate discrimination all over the United States, to destroy Mc Carthyism, or to bring eternal peace to the world. We know that NSA can work to end discrimination in the student community, that it can unify student support for academic freedom, that It can help to improve international relations through student exchanges and conferences. Academic freedom:

ISL believes that the current threats to academic freedom can best be countered not by meaningless gestures and hollow rhetoric but rather by effective and responsible action. ISL will work for NSA adoption of the following measures:

1. Support of the right of student political groups to receive university recognition, including such basically undemocratic organizations as the Labor Youth League and Students for America.

2. A reassertion of NSA’s belief in the right of teachers to teach and students to learn with regard only to competence and not to political considerations.

3. An amendment to the NSA Bill of Rights affirming the right of all student organizations to hear speakers of their choice on subjects of their choice. Student travel:

At present most of the NSA summer European travel programs are planned for students In the social sciences, humanities, and the college. ISL candidates will strive to broaden the summer travel program to include trips for

Dove Paul

Kori

SRP

Bobrow

Breslow Lichtenstein

Rodman

Richord Word

SRP

Frank Kirk Marcus Raskin Fred Solomon Raymond Wilkerson

SRP

Carolyn Eggert Bob Floyd

Suzanne Friedmann David Hartley

Sol Hirsh

Shirley Long David-Gerald Nash James Rosenblum Coleman Seskind James Vice

4. Vacancies ii) the Student Assembly: Amend the Constitution by substituting for Article V. G. 1., the following: “1. a. In the case of a resignation from the assembly, a by-election to fill all vacancies in the assembly ahall be held at the next all-campus election.

b. The executive council shall be empowered to make interim appointments to fill vacancies in the assembly, subject only to the grade and residence requirements of the constitution. All interim appointments shall lapse at the first occurence of an all-campus election.”

The following amendment will appear on the ballot , as the result of circulated petitions;

Resolved that vacancies arising in Student Government shall be filled in the following way:

1.

In the case of a recognized campus political party, by another member of the same party.

In the case of an independent, by an applicant of similar political views.

This amendment shall follow Article V.c. of the Constitution of Student Government.

Venez Nous Voir Zo Khodite

1131 33 E. 55th

College Program Director Suite 1318 330 S. Wells St. Chicago 6, Illinois

CAR ESSENTIAL 

students in specialized fields, such as medicine, biological and physical sciences, and law.

Discount service:

Our delegation will enlarge the present discount service Qn the local level and will work for a similar expansion on the national scale. We shall urge that NSA make contracts with several retail chains, such as A & P. stores, which will be applicable to students at all member schools.

Discrimination in education

We will work for NSA support of Fair Educational Practices Acts on the state and national levels. Such legislation ensures that the only requirement for the admission of students to institutions of higher education will be their ability to learn, without regard to race, color, or religion.

We will work for NSA establishment of a clearing house of Information on

the progress of member schools in inating discrimination on their puses.

Foreign exchange:

At the National Congress, 1SL

elimcamdelegates will use their own practical experience In organizing foreign student exchange programs to present the case for greater student participation in the direction of such exchanges.

We will promote consultation among member schools on the problem of financing student exchange programs. Along this line, the UC delegates will emphasize the valuable help given the exchange program by the campus fraternities and women’s clubs, as well as community foreign language groups.

ISL delegates will support the principle of exchange with all countries in the world, Including those behind the Iron Curtain. At the same time they will stress the necessity of the exchange of ideas and information as the indispensable condition of any exchange program.

ISL delegates, as they have done since 1949, will continue to oppose affiliation of NSA with the International Union of Students (IUS), a Communistcontrolled group with headquarters in

Student Representative Party

Fear of freedom Is not uncommon in the America of 1954. The atmosphere of the heresy-hunt, the legal and social pressures which demand conformity to an Americanism quite foreign to the democratic tradition have produced that political phenomenon known as Mc Carthyism.

As students at a university with a proud heritage of freedom, we realize that the liberty to learn, to discuss and to communicate, even across political barriers, Is essential to the progress of our nation and of the world.

We have seen the fruits of Mc Carthyism in its attacks upon our educational institutions. Instances of violations of academic freedom have steadily Increased. Few students are likely to join with those to whom the pursuit of knowledge is subversive: there have been many protests of individual campuses against Mc Carthyism. Yet the largest American student group, the National Student Association, has done little to articulate or encourage a principled, effective opposition to the odious assault ’ of the Mc Carthyltes.

The defense of freedom cannot be achieved through passive disgust or viewlng-with-alarm alone. We of SRP believe that students can and should make their view known and heard. Taking our cue from an eminent late opponent of the Mc Carthyite mentality, we suggest the following program of “four freedoms for the student,’’ a program which we believe will help to replace the present inaudible whisper of the American student with a clear and coherent voice.

Freedom of thought

The freedom to think, study and teach without fear of repression because of charges of heresy is of vital concern

to students. SRP will strive to NSA into full participation in the to preserve American liberties by ing that:

1. NSA give genuine support to

bring effort mova national Academic Freedom Week. It gave no assistance to those regions carrying out the program and did not attempt to expand it to other regions. This program should be a real effort on the part of NSA to involve students in defense of those freedoms to education, if it is not trination.

2. The NSA Student Bill

so essential to be indocof Rights be

expanded to include provisions protecting freedom of thought and expression in academic communities and the right of students and teachers to exercise the prerogatives of democratic citizenship without fear of subjection to dismissal or social castigation. SRP delegates will work to insure that NSA actively strive to establish the Student Bill of Rights on more campuses and to secure its enforcement.

Freedom from fear

Hysteria feeds upon an atmosphere of International tensions and prospect of war. Within the last year the possibility of lessening these tensions occurred within the student community when

COLLEGE MEN

Earn *75 per Week

during Summer

(Part-Time Work During College Term Also Available)

For Information Call: WEbster 9-6359

Write:

Prague. As In the past, ISL will urge Federal scholarships program:

ISL will work for NSA support of the movement to restore the funds for the Fulbright Fellowship Program, which have tentatively been cut by five-sixths In Congress.

We shall advocate a program of fedthat NSA announce its readiness to cooperate with IUS on projects of a practical, non-political nature. However, since such projects have failed in the past because of the unreasonable conditions posed by IUS, ISL delegates will urge the NSA to continue its present emphasis on cooperation with the national student groups of the free world, erally financed fellowships for students in the humanities and the social sciences. Such a program would be similar to the grants of the National Science Foundation to students in the physical sciences. The program should be administered by an agency of leading scholars, such as the National Research Council, and should derive funds by Congressional appropriation.

Student cooperatives:

While developing the Student Government housing cooperative project this year ISL candidates found that information and suggestions from student cooperatives at other schools were instrumental in bringing the student interests committee of the Board of Trustees to a favorite vote on the co-op.

ISL believes that because many students are unaware of the success which co-ops universally enjoy In providing vastly cheaper living conditions to student residents, the co-op movement is less widespread than it might be. It therefore feels that much is to be gained from stimulating Interest and spreading information. They will therefore urge that part of the $25,000 grant NSA is now seeking from the Ford Foundation be used to employ an expert on student government affairs who will travel to various American campuses and stimulate interest in student co-operatives as well as student extra-curricular self-government.

two delegations of US student editors toured the Soviet Union. SRP agrees with Director of Student Activities William Birenbaum’s letter to the president of NSA that there should be a two-way exchange of students. Therefore, we propose that:

1. NSA invite a delegation of Soviet student editors to visit the United States during the next year; and furthermore, that such programs of exchange with other nations as exist be Continued a ad expanded.

Universal Military Training has repeatedly threatened American students with the prospect of a draft far more extensive, permanent and with a longer period of service than any previous system in American history. UMT Is based on the presupposition of a permanent state of international tension. President Elsenhower, In commending UMT, stated, “Psychological Indoctrination requires the longest time but unfortunately it is never completely forgotten.” Formerly NSA opposed such a program, but last year it failed to reaffirm its position Therefore, we propose that:

2. NSA reaffirm it* opposition to UMT and that it be prepared to organize student opposition if the measure is re-introduced In Congress.

Freedom from racial and religious discrimination

Education limited by segregation and discrimination for some means limited education for all. we propose that NSA:

1. Establish a national committee, with a respected educator to advise and assist in the administration of the program, to facilitate in establishing and enforcing Michigan Plan programs on member campuses.

2. Prepare and distribute, in co-operation with such groups at the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People and the American Civil Liberties Union, a report on discriminatory practices in all phases of student life and on discriminatory and quotalimited admission practices existent today in college and professional schools, to be based upon a national survey undertaken by NSA and co-operating groups.

3. Support the campaign of the NAACP to end segregated education at all levels and to equalize opportunity for all groups.

Freedom from want

A serious national decrease In college and university enrollment has focused attention on the many economic difficulties faced by students. In order to make education possible without undue hardship, we propose that NSA:

1. Facilitate the establishment of student eating, housing and book-buying co-operatives and assist them In obtaining financial credit and stability.

2. Publicize the need for federal aid to educational institutions and to students.

3. Prepare and distribute a report to the American people on the economic crisis In education. April 16, 1954

THE CHICAGO MAROON

Page 5

Dames to welcome the spring with dance for selves, husbands

A spring dinner dance to be held Saturday, April 24, will be the Dames’ Club Easter present to themselves. The entire third floor of Ida Noyes has been obtained for the affair, with an 8 p.m. dinner in the west dining room followed by a 9 p.m. to midnight dance in the east auditorium, for Dames Club

New political group permanent

by Arnie Matanky

members and their husbands. Members of the Dames club, a social organization for wives of the University students, will be admitted without charge to the dance. Expenses will be paid with funds raised by frames through bake sales, benefit bridges and dues.

After dinner, which will be prepared by the Dames themselves, Dames and their husbands will dance to the music of Bill Price and his orchestra in a ballroom

After a fervent three hour and 15 minute discussion, the temporary political action committee voted 8-7 last Friday to elect permanent officers and to set up a statement of principles at another meeting. The meeting was later set for 2:30 p.m. Wednesday at Ida Noyes.

Friday’s meeting was called by a group which had left the Student Representative Party (SRP). It debated the question of organizing a third party on campus to oppose both the SRP and the Independent Students League (ISL) at the April 22-23 National Students Association (NSA) election.

decorated in an Oriental motif. Following the dance will be a midnight snack.

This year’s dinner dance will be the first admission-free dance the Dames have presented. Other activities of the Dames Club, an organization attempting to integrate students’ wives into a well-planned social community, include the regular monthly Dames tea, bridge tournaments, sewing circles, sports, community baby sitting,

WUS (formerly WSSF) sponsors

a Dance on April 24

ploce to be announced

Duos in Jazz"

April 25

2:30 p.m

MANDEL HALL

Ray Nelson (college) sparked the meeting by announcing that he could see no way of reconciling the two main factions within SRP, and that he could not back ISL either because the organization "has backed down on student needs when told that the administration is a little bit opposed to them.” Discussion of break

The former SRP members led a detailed discussion of the events leading up to their break with the party. Ralph Fertig (soc sci) said that in all 15 students have left SRP, which is the minority party in Student Government.

Fertig declared that at the time he walked out of SRP he had no intention of forming a new party, and that he would not lead any organization opposed to SRP candidates in the NSA election, although he might be a member.

Peter Pflaum (college) said he believed that the University's at a time of crisis. He criticized organizations which devote themselves to "social functions, committees and nice work” without considering the needs of the whole student body.

SRP regains loyalty of three objectors

During the week following last Friday night’s meeting of the new political action committee, political loyalties oscillated and SRP membership went alternately up and down.

At press time, Robert W. Floyd (phy sci), Michael C. Kaufman (college) and Henry M. Mueller (college) had returned to SRP.

Jan Majde (college) said he was disgusted because no one who was willing to do something had voiced a stand. Majde, one of the students who had left SRP, insisted that a third party is essential.

The meeting drew toward an uproar, with cries of "Communists and fellow travelers” and parliamentary wrangles.

Defended party

Paul E. Breslow (soc sci), chairman of SRP, defended his party against the charges levied against it. He said that SRP members support their NSA election platform and intend to carry it out.

ISL leaders who were present did not take part in the discussion.

Fertig announced that “I won’t under any conditions return to SRP,” and the meeting boiled down to a friendly fight between supporters of a third party and proponents of a political action committee which would take a strong liberal stand but would not run slates of candidates.

Declaring that "this group is not essential nor desirable,” Miss Kay E. Schwartz (college) moved that the committee be dissolved. Miss Jean Hargitt (college) then moved a substitute motion that permanent officers and a body of principles be voted on, which received a 7-7 vote. Fertig as chairman cast the deciding vote to break the tie and set up the permanent committee.

Christmas card designs sought

A design for a Christmas card which extends a holiday greeting and conveys the feeling or idea of international brotherhood is being sought by the Chicago Chapter of International House Association

ITS ALL A MATTER OF TASTE

Late for your ^^£^’ 1 wild someth^-^ 43}=^^

W. T- Dotn^f Virtini

University of

,• When you come right down to it, you smoke for one simple reason... enjoyment. And smoking enjoyment is all a matter of taste. Yes, taste is what counts in a cigarette. And Luckies t^ste better.

Two facts explain why Luckies taste better. First, L.S./M.F.T.—Lucky Strike means fine tobacco... light, mild, goodtasting tobacco. Second, Luckies are actually made better to taste better... always round, firm, fully packed to draw freely and smoke evenly.

So, for the enjoyment you get from better taste, and only from better taste, Be Happy—Go Lucky. Get a pack or a carton of better-tasting Luckies today.

“i Tk S^?

Indiana V^^

A comprehensive survey—based on 31,000 student interviews and supervised by college professors—shows that smokers in colleges from coast to coast prefer Luckies to all other brands! The No. 1 reason: Luckies’ better taste!

a lucky Strike,

COM.. THt AMMICAN TOBACCO COMPANY I which hopes to reproduce the card and sell it in quantity. $25 will be paid for full rights to the design chosen for reproduction.

Deadline for entries in the design competition is May 31. There is no limit on the number of entries anyone can submit. Cards may be mailed to International House, 1414 E. 59th, and those not chosen will be returned if a stamped and addressed envelope is enclosed.

Designs may be submitted in any size and may be planned either for printing or for silk screen method of reproduction. Not more than two -colors of ink or paint may be used, although an additional color may be introduced by using colored paper. International House would be interested in seeing some designs in one color, such as in white on a rich red or green paper.

Ski enthusiasts to holdreunion

Outing Club ski enthusiasts from UC and Northwestern who attended the ski trip to Colorado during the interim will hold a reunion at 8 p.m. tomorrow night at 5737 University.

Veterans of the ski trip were asked to bring prints, slides, and films taken on the trip for showing at the meeting.

COLLEGE SMOKERS PREFER LUCKIES

strike

P'S toasted

A ” E r T E s

§an Jose

LUCKIES TASTE BETTER

CLEANER, FRESHER, SMOOTHER!

Portraits by

LOUISE BARKER

Photographer

1457 E. 57th St. BU 8-0876

|^???!^^?:*

Europe VZ**f9^

Round Trip via Steamship |4OA FMWENT SAILINGS AQV

fee your local travel agent for folder* and detail^ *••;

Toirist Iwk Trip Air

off IJQQHO in v Uv season “vw season

Choi M of Over 100 STWERT CUSS TOHS |C J A TRAVEL STMT TOWS 0ORW0TEOT0WS ER

Univardfy Travel Co., official bondad aganh for all Unit, hot rondorod officiant traval tar vice on a bvtinatt bout tinea J 926.

UNIVERSITY TRAVEL CO.

Harvard Sq , Cambridge, Mass. THE CHICAGO MAROON

April 16, 1954

Errors, erratic pitching cause three UC defeats

---Sport B ri efs Acrotheatre spring show has New Mexican motif

H Lennie Friedman .

Ike Eisenhower didn’t throw out the first ball, nor did the Maroons jar tradition in any way as the UC nine lost three straight games. Plagued by erratic pitching and spotty fielding in their three weekend games, the ball club was downed 15-3, 11-8 and 9-7.

At Naperville on Friday the Maroons failed to hold the floodgates and were swbpt away by North Central, 15-3. Team-captain Dave Utley drove in all three Maroon runs which put Chicago ahead in the second inning, but a determined North Central team came back

in the later innings to take and hold their lead.

Sharing the pitching chores among his staff, Coach Kyle Anderson started Jerry Bowman who gave up two runs in three innings and was succeeded by Jerry Lux who was shelled in his initial appearance for 10 runs. Chuck Youngquist relieved Lux and finished the game by walking around the last three North Central runs. Most of these runs were unearned, as Chicago committed six errors. Chicago batters collected eight hits off North Central pitching with Utley and second-sacker Bob Mann getting two apiece.

and Mann flied to left to bring in Marumoto for the sixth and final run of the inning. This put Chicago'ahead, 8-5.

Youngquist walks five

Youngquist relieved Bohman to hold the lead. After issuing five passes, he was yanked for Lux who again failed to stem the tide and by then Chicago was behind for good.

The Maroons held up well in the nightcap as long-John Broyles went the route and pitched fine ball. But three Chicago errors UC sailors

proved to be his undoing. Marumoto, Mann and Utley kept up their fine hitting. Marumoto collected four hits during the day and the longest Maroon blow of the season—a triple.

RHE

Maroons 120 000 000 3 8 6

No..Cent nd 002 051 223 15 10 2

St. Joseph 021 204 2 11 6 2

Maroons 020 600 0 8 7 6

St. Joseph 300 002 4 9 9 1

Maroons 104 200 0 7 7 3

to meet

Bowman starts again

On Monday Chicago played host to the St. Joseph Panthers. In both ends of a double-header Chicago pulled ahead to an early lead and then fell apart under pressure. Bowman again started for the maroon and white, giving up four unearned runs and one earned run in four innings.

In the bottom half of the fourth, Chicago batters collected six runs. A walk to Gil Levine, a single by George Gray and a walk to Bohman loaded the bases. After Bruce Colby was hit by a pitched ball and Buzz Tarr was safe on a fielder’s choice, Chicago had two runs across. An infield hit by Wendell Marumoto and a shortstop’s error on Walt Walker’s ground ball brought around two more Maroon runners. Utley was hit by a pitch

Midwest's top teams

by Al Fortier • •

Competing in the Midwest Collegiate Sailing Association Spring Intersectional Invitational Regatta, and launching pleasure sailing at Columbia Yacht Club, the UC sailors start off the 1954 season with a big splash this weekend. The regatta, to be held at the University of Michigan tomorrow and Sunday, has a list of teams as impressive as its long name.

Wisconsin, Washington, IIT, De Pauw, Michigan, Michigan State, Detroit, Wayne, Chicago and a guest team from the Middle Atlantic district will compete in the number one Midwest event of the Spring. Sailing club experts expect the UC Sailing Club to swamp about half the teams — especially neighbor IIT.

International House Movie Program

East Lounge, Monday and Thursday Evenings at 7:00 P.M. and 9:00 P.M.

Admission 35c

Monday, April 19 — ORPHEUS (French)

Thursday, April 22 — GENTLEMEN'S AGREEMENT (American)

UC’ers will be competing in the twenty races for two new awards, a major one for outstanding skippers, and a minor one available to both skippers and crews, to be presented by the athletic department.

Back at Chicago, pleasure will start next Tuesday in the club’s completely renovated maroon-andwhite boat. This year schedules for pleasure sailing and racing have been expanded to include

afternoons during the week, as well as all day on weekends. While these activities are for members

Acrotheatre is presently preparing its 1954 production, “Acrodea,” a presentation of modern, ballet, folk and acrobatic dance as well as gymnastic performances on the horizontal bar and trampoline. In the picture above Norma Fox, Bill Texter and Leah Condit (left to right) describe life in their adobe hacienda. The show, describing life in New Mexico, will be given in Mandel Hall on April 30 and May 1 at 8:30 p.m. and on May 2 at 3:30 p.m. Student tickets are available until April 22 at $1 each at Bartlett Gym and the Student Service Center in the Reynolds Club.

This year’s show, produced and directed by Bud Beyer, director of Acrotheatre and gymnastics coach, will feature the choreography of Dolores Wharton, Louise Fechheimer and Dorothy King. For nonstudents general admission seats are $1.50 each, while all reserved seats are $1.85.

Elmhurst downed in tennis meet

Coach Bill Moyle's netmen opened the season against the Blue Jays from Elmhurst College by slamming out an 8-2 win. Bob Fox, George Stone, Tom Zukowski and Toby Owen had no trouble winning, but Duncan Burford dropped the second of his three-set match to his opponent. The Maroons took all three double contests. •

Watkins, JV trackmen win again

The JV track team defeated Leo and St. George high schools in a triangular meet at Stagg Field last Friday, winning every event but the mile and discus. High point man for the lightweights was Mitch Watkins who won both hurdle races, tied for first in the high jump, placed second in the board-jump, and picked up thirds in the discus and shot-put for a total of 21 points. Final score was Chicago 86‘a, St. George 35, Leo 25^.

Sports events this week

Today—the Maroon basebailers face Chicago Teachers at 3:30 p.m. in Stagg Field. Tomorrow—the trackmen will nftet Washington University in Stagg Field at 12:30 p.m. Wednesday—the JV trackmen

only, new members are still being .face Wendell Phillips and La Grande high schools and the varsity accepted for the spring quarter. runners meet Wilson Junior College, both events 4 p.m. at Stagg Field.

How a star reporter * got started.. • "I was born in

B„GU.n^

Hong Kong. Spoke only ^ Amelica, 1 stored When my family r ia ana Columbia. My journalism al Call b; thance - war

Buency in correspondent in _ then Korea _

b“a‘”T"

ive smoked camels J

. ALL OVER THE

WORLD. FOR ME, OTHER BRANDS JUST CAN’T EQUAL .

CAMELS' WONDERFUL

> MILDNESS RICH flavor

r AND ALL-ROUND

SMOKING- PLEASURE !

start smoking CAMSIS YOURSSlf I

mildness and rl“’ friendly flavor give ^ people more pure Measure than tocher cigarette!

/W7V /

4O&

milhxtr 

CAMELS LEAD in sales by record 50$

Newest nationwide figures* from the leading industry analyst, Harry M. Wootton, show Camels now SO S/10% ahead of the second-place brand—biggest preference load in history 1

'Published In Printers’ Ink. ISM

^ Mildness ^flavor

* ’• Bw*Wl **•*• C*” Winston-Salem, N. 0.

W#Camels agree with more people

THAN ANY OTHER. CIGARETTE 1 April 16, 1954

THE CHICAGO MAROON

Page 7

Quartet capable, music lacking

It is certainly commendable for a chamber group to perform contemporary music; however, it does not seem too much to ask that it should be good contemporary music. The Walden Quartet’s program last Friday at Mandel Hall was very contemporary, but unfortunately not very good. The three quartets, by two Englishmen and an American, were varied in style, but rather uniform in quality, which did little to recommend the performers’ discrimination, notwithstanding their obvious good intentions and ability as performers.

The first work, a theme and

variations by Alan Rawsthorne, was perhaps the most individual of the three, but was severely hampered by a faulty technique in the use of the medium, and a needless and artificial harmonic complexity which failed to disguise the melodic lackings. Rawsthorne, born in England in 1905, wrote the work in 1939; yet it sounded very much like the effort of a partly-trained student, admittedly a talented one, but partly-trained nevertheless.

Elliott Carter, the one American, offered an even more recent work, written in 1951. Carter was a student of Piston and, later, Boulanger, when he undoubtedly was one of the large group of Americans who, like Copland, wrote much music in an experimental vein in the ’20s. Most of these later discarded this early experimentation in favor of more substantial and individual styles, especially under the influence of folk music.

The last quartet was a rather early work by William Walton, very conventional and almost romantic compared to the others, sounded rather like the solid classical work with which conventional programs end after their Ravelian or even Bartokian excursions. Walton has, however, written much more interesting music; this quartet seemed to be an exercise in a classical form, very well constructed and very classical but with very little interest as a

Budweiser

USTEN TO “SPORTS TODAY” WITH MU STERN ABC HAMO NFTWORK MONDAY THRU FRIDAY

ANHEUSER-BUSCH, IN C

ST. LOUIS • NEWARK • LOS ANGELIS

When you know your beer

it’s bound to be Bud

When it comes to beer, millions of people do “put all their eggs in one basket”... they always drink Budweiser. They knojv that no other beer can match the distinctive taste of Budweiser, brewed by the costliest process on Earth.

(Incidentally, Budweiser tastes wonderful with hard-boiled eggs! )

Enjoy

lends All Seers In Salts Today and Through The Years!

piece of music.

For all this, the Walden Quartet still deserves some credit for programming contemporary works at all; still, why mostly English ones? Neither Rawstorne nor, certainly, Walton, has been much neglected, and there are any number of works by Piston, Copland, Moore or Ive, just to men New Huston film amusing; opens today at Hyde Park

Beat the Devil, opening tonight at the Hyde Park Theatre, is a highly amusing film, but suffers from a stridency and hysteria that comes when inventiveness is not balanced by firm direction and purpose. The film, which is more burlesque than farce, was directed by John Huston from a scenario by Huston and Truman Capote, and bears all the earmarks of hasty improvisation. It can hardly be considered representative of either’s work.

The plot center, if the film can be considered as having one, is the undoing of a group of rogues by their own suspicions and machinations. Robert Morley, as leader of a band of rascals who have designs on uranium lands in British Africa, gives a very creditable performance in the role .of a Machiavellian schemer with a tendency to spout middle class moral platitudes. The film makes

tion the well-known ones, which probably deserve to be heard much more than these, not to speak of composers of other countries. The Walden Quartet certainly are very good as performers, and if they can only improve their programming we can hope for some excellent concerts in the

future.

Robert Bloch

its greatest lapse into vacuousness and poor taste in the depiction of his cronies, grotesques who for the most part have nothing to do; it is especially painful to see Peter Lorre in one of these pointless roles, trying to cope with extremely poor material.

In contrast to Morley and his gang are Humphrey Bogart as an American adventurer and Jennifer Jones as the dopey wife of a

Britisher on his way to a dreary career in the colonies.

The film in general is overburdened by a plot with a surfeit of turns and inventions, characters at loose ends, attempts at satire without a clear point of view, and an overly burdened literary dialogue. This sort of satire needs, primarily, a simple approach and great lightness of touch, or else it collapses into a heavy-handed and confusing lampoon.

Frank G. Ternenyi

Inheritors' reading opens freedom week

Last Sunday evening a group of actors from the cast of The World of Sholem Aleichem presented a concert reading of Susan Glaspell’s The Inheritors in Mandel Hall. The performance marked the beginning of Academic Freedom Week. The Inheritors deals with the problem of conformity on a Midwest campus in the year 1921. The problems and ideas

contained in the work are very much alive for us today, but the actual literary expression of them is unfortunately dated. Nevertheless, the audience enjoyed the professional rendition given it by Howard de Silva, Gibert Green, Ann Revere, Marjory Nelson, Ed Grower, and Cliff Carpenter.

They provided a much appreciated oportunity for UC to witness a well done concert performance. This form of presentation, which is enjoying a popular revival consists of actors reading from music stands, with movement limited to the bare minimum necessary to convey the essential physical action.

Marjory Nelson portrayed the granddaughter of the founder of the college, who is faced with the

“Everyman” interesting

despite its weakness

The Chicago Equity Library Theatre gave an interesting performance of Everyman in Rockefeller Chapel Monday night. The play’s plot consists of Everyman’s changing attitude as he is forced to meet death and face7all its consequences. The possessions he learns that he must lose are represented by individual characters who symbolize his

friends, his goods, his knowledge and his strength. The power of the play lies in its ability to force the audience to recognize that men are alone in death, and to remind them that only their good deeds will help them to face God after the grave.

The play will succeed if it can capture the other world atmosphere while maintaining the human drama of one man’s discovery of the fate of all men. In many respects this group failed. Pierre Delattre as the Messenger sounded like a high school valedictorian. Lee Blattner as Fellowship was often guilty of an exaggerated rendition of Fellowship apparently after the model of a delegate to an American Legion convention. Carolyn Poole as Discretion seemed to confuse discretion with a bad disposition. Dean Thompson as Adonai and Confession acted like a self-conscious preacher, perhaps an understandable weakness.

Larry Kelly was very effective as Everyman. He projected very clearly h i s changing emotions, and thereby maintained the inter Books For Easter Reading

BEYOND ANXIETY by Pike 

Deon Pike shows how we can reach beyond the basic anxieties to greater understanding and fulfillment.

CONSCIENCE AND COMPROMISE by Long 

A discussion of a method of Christian ethics, vital and readable, which should be of interest to college religious groups and other laymen, as well as ministers and theological students.

FOOLISHNESS TO THE GREEKS by 

With point and wit the author expounds the view that life is richer and more meaningful under the conditions of the Christian faith (which the Greeks considered foolishness) than life under any other conditions.

WHEN GOO SAYS 'NO' by Johnstone $3.50

The autobiography of a well-known woman Congregational minister who has had a story career in Chicago and New York State.

MISSA SINE NOMINE by 

A powerful novel about a bitterly disillusioned roan in post War Germany who fights his way back to on understanding of life. ,

CHRIST IN THE HAUNTED WOOD by Pittenger

$2.75

P The relevance of the Christian faith in helping Mon find his way out of the "Haunted Wood" of despair and futility, is the theme of this book.

UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO BOOKSTORE

5802 Ellis Avenue

problem of standing up for the traditions of freedom which she has been taught. To do this means going to jail for assisting some Hindu students who have been agitating for Indian independence. This character, as well as others in the play, suffers from the lack of what we today call sophistication. Miss Nelson overcame this difficulty and gave a believable and sympathetic portrayal of the girl.

This group came south to perform for the campus during the hour and a half break between matinee and evening performances of The World of Sholom Aleichem. They very generously donated their time to provide a cogent beginning for Academic Freedom Week.

Arlene Petersen

est of the audience. Sarah Mineo made the very difficult part of Good Deeds a very successful one.

On the whole, the cast triumphed over the worst of modern costumes. Fellowship had on a purple shirt and suspenders which would have made his friendship with me impossible. Strength was dressed in a black creation that seemed to have its origin in some comic book.

The beauty and size of Rockefeller Chapel, the intelligent use of lighting, the music of the Bond Chapel choir and the organist Henrich Fleischer contributed greatly to the religious effect.

K. G. K.

UT prepares one-act plays

Three one-act plays, to be given in the round, will be University Theatre’s spring quarter production. The performances will be given in the Reynolds Club theatre May 7, 8 and 9, and the following weekend, May 14, 15 and 16. Page 8

THE CHICAGO MAROON

April 16, 1954

^<w^ eatuftttt ev&ttt etc ^e^

A Community Good Friday Service will be held in Rockefeller Chapel from 12 to 3 p.m.

The Business Club will meet in Haskell second floor lounge at 3:30 p.m. for coffee and a talk by Charles Horngren.

The Humboldt Club will hear a talk by Professor Schultz in Wleboldt 408 at 4 p.m. Refreshments.

illel Foundation Passover Oneg will feature poetry readings by Stanley Gewintz and Aryah Motzkin at 8:30 p.m. Sabbath Service will precede the Fireside at 7:45 p.m.

•The Bride’s Surprise” will be shown in B-J at 7:15 and 9:30 p.m. Admission 25 cents.

Sunday, April 18

Rockefeller Chapel Service for Easter Sunday at 11 a.m.

Seder at Hillel Foundation, 6:30 p.m. Members $1.75, others $2 (by reservation only).

Channing Club will have supper at 6 p.m. at 5638 Woodlawn, followed by a discussion, ”Is Utopia Necessary?”

“Boomerang” will be shown in B-J at 7:15 and 9:30 p.m. Admission 25 cents.

Tuesday, April 20

Inter-Varsity Christian Fellowship will have luncheon and hear a talk by William Norton of Trinity Seminary. Ida Noyes Sun parlor from 12:30 to 1:20 p.m.

The Mountaineering Club will hear a talk by Gaurang Yodh in Rosenwald 26 at 7:30 p.m. Slides.

The Politics Club will hear a debate, "Is the Third Camp the Road to Peace?” in Ida Noyes (north reception room) at 8 p.m.

The Graduate History Club is sponsoring an informal lecture by A. H. Mc Donald, Professor at Cambridge University. on "Post-war Japan and the Far East.” Ida Noyes Sun Parlor at 8 p.m.

Wednesday, April 21

The Pre-Medical Club will meet In Abbott 420 at 3:30 p.m. for refreshments. At 4 p.m. Austin H. Riesen, associate professor of psychology, will talk on “Organic Psychology.”

The Italian Club will hear a talk by Professor Silverstein on “Living and Studying in Italy.” International House. Room C-D, at 7:30 p.m.

Sailing Club meeting in Ida Noyes East Lounge at 7:30 p.m.

The Camera Club will hold a contest and salon in Eckhart 202 at 7:30 p.m. Prints and slides will be judged.

Reverend Verne H. Fletcher will speak on "France’s Twin Dilemmas: Ger AGENTS WANTED

In (pare time you can make more money faster and easier taking orders for "Holdrite", the new and better hanger for trousers, than with ony other like product. Make $10 to $15 a day. Earn tuition money during summer months. No long spies talk necessary. A proven product. Thousands in use. "Holdrite" sells itself. Every man a prospect for 3 or more. "Holdrite" fits into trouser cuffs, holds press in, hangs wrinkles out. Saves pressing bills. All-metal construction. Trousers can't fall off. Retails for $1.00. Generous commission to agents. Send $1.00 today for starting samples of 2 "Holdrites".

ADDRESS

WALLACE BRANDS CO.

20 Broadway Toledo 4 Ohio

RESTRING ^^

STANDS OUT I

in play V

• Harder Smashes

• Better Cut and Spin

STANDS UP J

tn your racket

• Moisture Immune

• Lasting Liveliness

COSTS LESS

than gut

APPROX. STRINGING COST: F I

Pro-Fected Braid. ..$6.00

Multi-Ply Braid.$5.00 V,

At tennis shops and sporting goods stores. w

ASHAWAY BRAIDED RACKET STRING Choice of The Championsmany and Indo-China,” sponsored by

the Faculty-Graduate Committee Peace Eckhart 206 at 8:30 p.m.

for

Classified

For Sole

Co-op apartment, 7 rooms, 2 baths. Second floor, back yard, modern kitchen, paneled living-room. Ideal for faculty investment for moderate cost, low monthly assessment. 5711 Blackstone. HY 3-5473.

15 Watt Williamson amplifier. Craftsman C-800 FM-AM tuner, Rek-O-Kut turntable. Evenings BI 7-2929.

Bike, woman’s Roadmaster, new tires, perfect condition, best offer. Jospe, SH 3-4677, Mon., Thurs. night, Saturday.

1940 Chevrolet two door sedan, good running condition. NO 7-3391, 6032 S. Ingleside, basement.

Two tuxedos and one tails, worn once, size 36-37 Reasonable. SO 8-1587.

Today's CHESTERFIELD is the

Best Cigarette Ever Made!

University of Oklahoma '54

The cigarette that gives you proof of highest quality—low nicotine. For the taste and mildness you want—smoke America’s most popular 2-way cigarette.

with smokers. Here is the record. Bi-Monthly examinations of a group of smokers show no adverse effects to nose, throat and sinuses from smoking Chesterfield.

Purdvo Univ. *56

The cigarette tested and approved by 30 years of scientific tobacco research.

Copyrig M 1954, Log<h & Mvw Toucco Co p Largest Selling Cigarette in America's Colleges CHESTERFIELD

1 BBSTf OBn W

Boy's bike, generator, lights, bookcarrier, $40. Catcher's mitt, baseball spikes, size 11, both $15 or best offers. M. Pastor, MU 4-6917.

LP’s, 40 to 60 per cent off list price. Bach, Beethoven, etc. Call evenings, BU 8-8928.

Siamese kittens, fine specimens, housebroken before delivery to you. Reasonable. NO 7-0999.

Free old grand piano, good tone, interesting looking, needs tuning. X-3275, DO 3-7960.

Wanted: Buyers of 45 and LP records and assorted books. Call Tom Upham, 5747 University.

Wanted

Englishman and wife seek furnished sub-let mid-June, July, August. Near University. Call Dockrell, NO 7-9618.

Students interested in working on a campus sports newspaper call Sheft at MU 4-9825.

To buy or rent, set of Linguaphone or other French language records. Call FA 4-8200, ext. 404.

Man's lightweight bicycle. Fred Meier,

Used girl's bicycle, lightweight, English type, good condition. Call evenings, BU 8-8928.

Services

Mathematics. Special Instruction to fit cialize in divisional requirements and comps. Call evenings, BU 8-8928.

Mathematics. Specail instruction to fit your mathematical needs. Individual or group sessions. Albert Soglin, ST 2-6727.

Rent an electric refrigerator as low as $4 per month. Also we repair refrigerators. CO 4-9231.

Creative portraiture. Top quality, quick service, 50 per cent discount to Uni-versity community. Joe Wolf, ES 5-1615.

Will tutor physics student in German in return for help on Nat Scl 3 (Physical). Hirsch, BU 8-9736.

Lost

Chemistry 105-6-7 notes in spiral bound notebook, last Friday morning. Roger Kallen, FA 4-1854.

Notebook with OMP, Soc 3, Hum 3. and Math notes, vicinity Cobb. Return to Johnson, 5737 University.

For Rent

3-room furnished apartment, near campus. Also 2 furnished bedrooms. Phone HY 3-1864.

Newly decorated 2 and iya room furnished apts., also large sleeping rooms. 2 blocks from UC, linens, maid service reasonable rent. 6107 Dorchester Avenue’ PL 2-9641.

Rooms. Graduate students or University employees preferred. Alpha Kappa Kappa medical fraternity, 5725 Woodlawn PL 2-9250.

Room, comfortable, reasonable rent. MI 3-9119.

Poems to be sung

Shib Mitra, psychologist from India and an international House resident, will sing poems of Sir Rabindranath Tagore at an International House party on Saturday, May 1, at 8 p.m. Dr. S. D. Malaiperuman will be guest of honor at the party.