4 Nr

Professor Werner Heisenberg, who spoke Wednesday on “The theory of turbulence” as one of a series of physics lectures. Professor Heisenberg developed, among other theories, the Principle of Uncertainty.

Explosion Noisy, Injures No One

A sealed, eight-inch glass tube containing diborane, an air reactive compound, exploded in the moat in front of Jones laboratory late Monday afternoon, after being thrown from a second floor window.

Several student research assistants, working on a problem in inorganic chemistry, were present at the time of the explosion. No one was injured.

According to the source interviewed, it is customary to dispose of the left over diborane in the moat. The moat is floored with gravel. The tube usually breaks immediately, allowing the chemical to burn harmlessly before extinguishing itself.

On Monday the tube caught in some vines which cushioned its fall, causing it to land intact.

The resulting buildup of gases due to an abnormally long period of containment before exploding caused the loud blast heard by many students in the quad.

SRP-ISL Debate

Set for Wednesday

A debate about which political party represents UC students will be held next Wednesday at 3:30 p.m. in Ida Noyes hall. Clive Gray, president of SG and Al Forter, president of ISL will defend the proposition, resolved: “ISL can best represent UC students,’’ against Vera John and Marcus Raskin of SRP.

Paul Breslow, president of SRP, said, “SRP is presenting a principled platform on the issues of student needs, academic freedom, discrimination, and student exchange. I hope that all students who support our program will work for its fulfillment rather than merely give lipservice to liberal principles for partisan advantage; a campaign

should be based upon issues rather than smear.”

Gray stated, “We have debated the SRP people before, and I have yet to find anyone who heard those debates and thought the SRP side was anything but hot air. We have not only the arguments but also the record in

Student Government, and I only wish we had more opportunity to present it to the campus.”

The debate, a prelude to the SG elections on Thursday and Friday, is sponsored by the Student Forum under the direction of Marvin Phillips.

Fermi in Hospital f or Surgery

Dr. Enrico Fermi, Charles H. Swift distinguished service professor in the department of physics and the institute for nuclear studies, underwent an exploratory operation last Saturday at Billings hospital.

Attendants at the hospital described his condition as satisfactory, but declined to reveal what type or surgery he underwent or the extent of his illness.

Name Grodzins

Adviser to LAK

Morton Grodzins has been

appointed adviser to the chancellor on special projects, Chanhancellor Lawrence A. Kimpton announced today. Because of the responsibilities of this new position, Grodzins is relinquishing his present position as dean of the division of the social sciences, and Chauncy D. Harris, professor of geopraphy, will serve as acting dean.

SG Stops Move to Alter

Dr. Fermi’s offices in the research institute also did not disclose the reason for his surgery but said that he would be released from Billings at the end of next week and that he would need a “great deal of rest” and would be absent from his work for “some time.”

Candidate Petition Date

A move to extend the final deadline on petitions for places on the ballot at the forthcoming Student Government election vis defeated at SG’s first meeting of the year Tuesday evening. The vote of 12-8 with two abstentions was along party lines, Independent Students league opposing and Students Representative party supporting the move.

1 he I inal motion, as amend- j^l countered with charges that ed by Donald Anderson (SRP- this was merely a device to give son. sci.) would have extended SRP more time to find additional the final deadline for unindorsed candidates. Emil Johnson (ISLcandidates until such time as col.) claimed that SRP meant to

Fermi, a mild-mannered refugee from Fascism in his native Italy, was a key figure in the development of the atomic bomb. He had the chief role in building the uranium pile, or reactor, in the stands of Stagg field in 1942, opening the atomic age.

University of Chicago, October 15, 1954

“sufficient publicity” had been given. • Tuesday was the final deadline but SRP found itself unable to contest seven seats at that time. ISL also lacks one candidate.

Cite Lack of Publicity

SRP leaders complained that there had been insufficient publicity previous to the deadline. Larry Lichtenstein (SRP-col.) asserted that the only substantial publicity given as to the availability of petitions or existence of deadline appeared in a fourparagraph story in last Friday’s MAROON.

This gave prospective candidates only three working days in which to get petitions, procure the necessary 25 signatures, and return the petitions to the SG office. Lichtenstein claimed that this militated against independents who wanted to run for SG.

Water Floods Midway in

Downpour

Streets Become Rivers; Buildings Leak

During the recent rains, water covered the Midway from bank to bank and flowed in streams down street approaches in the immediate vicinity of the Quadrangles. The accumulation of five days’ rain not only flooded basements in University buildings, but also produced such sights as barefoot students walking onto puddlespattered classroom floors in Cobb.

Sheets of water up to 1% inches deep invaded the below-groundlevel floors of about a dozen buildings on campus. The Buildings and Grounds department also reported approximately ten roof leaks, although there was no damage beyond stained walls and ceilings.

Student reaction, according to a Maroon survey, ranged frbm exhilaration to depression. Several students did not mind the water uself, but complained that their shoes had been completely ruined.

Several sidewalks in the area were flooded within a few inches of the edge because of the plugged up sewers. On University avenue, cars parked along sidewalks prevented effective leaf clearance by the Bureau of Sewers.

run their candidates under an independent label for purposes of the election.

SRP agreed to the Tuesday deadline at its passage last spring and only wanted to change the

date because they were short on candidates, charged Roger Woodworth, ex-president of SG and ISL “elder statesman.” “If SRP or any independents were interested enough,” he said, “they could have gotten the petitions and gotten them signed The C-Shop is just running over with people who are willing to sign Student Government petitions.”

SRP is short two candidates in social services administration, three in medicine, one in the business school, and one in the federation of theological schools. ISL lacks a contestant for one seat in the school of medicine.

Three freshmen inspect results of rainstorm. Occupants of Midway puddle are, from left to right, Ina Davis, Debby Mines, and Ruth Gordon.

Prefabs Will be Razed;

Remaining Tenants Organize

As of June 1955 the University’s pre-fab units will be torn down, displacing some 1,000 persons from 380 families.

Currently, the pre-fab council is attempting to reorganize in order to insure that it will remain a group after the pre-fabs come down. It would like to form an organization for all married students interested in providing better housing and solving other problems facing

them.

The council was originally formed in the summer of 1953 to provide an organ through which pre-fab tenants and tenants of other University housing could

discuss their problems with

the

administration.

In the past, it has been successful in getting floodlights, having the University remove unused ice ; boxes from the pre-fab units, and . in increasing the number of armed guards stationed in the area. The guards were requested after a number of disturbances were reported.

As of now the University has no stated plan for the relocation of the pre-fab tenants, but they are considering the problem. Robert Strozier, dean of students, has promised to give the council an

answer in January. “Meantime, we’re worried,” stated Scot Mitchell, vice-president of the pre-fab council. “The University should give us a policy statement so we

Clubs Start

Fall Rushing

The official rushing period for the women’s clubs on campus begins Sunday at six. During the first week each club will have one party, scheduled as follows:

Monday—Mortar Board, Phi Gamma Delta house, 7:30-9:30 p. m Phi Upsilon house, 7:30-9:30 p. m.

Wednesday—Sigma, Zeta Beta Tau house, 7:30-9:30 p. m.

Sunday—Delta Sigma, Phi Gamma Delta house, 2-4 p.m.

The clubs will have luncheon dates in the coffee shop next Tuesday and Wednesday and in the Hunt room next to Hutchison commons on Tuesday, October 26.

The girls will also have coffee dates in the Hunt room next Thursday.

The clubs are trying to contact all eligible girls. However, any girls who are sixteen or over and are interested in joining a women’s club are invited.

can plan for the future.”

According to Mitchell, the prefab tenants “like the University and want to be a part of the University, or else they wouldn’t have come here. The University now has a responsibility to help us and our families find a place to live. We have to provide a healthy, clean atmosphere for our kids.”

The income of pre-fab tenants runs anywhere from nothing to $6000 annually, with an average of $2700. One-room units rent for $48, while two-room units are $55 per month. A large proportion of

tenants are GI’s and many of these have used up their GI Bill credits.

Mitchell says he would like to see “the University build one, perhaps two or three low-cost apartment buildings on the order of the Olander Homes (Chicago Housing authority homes at 39th near the lake). This would house about one-third of the families with children who need a place to live.” CHA rents range from $27 to $62 based on one-fifth of the family’s income. Families must have an annual income of $3700 or less to qualify.

SG Tells Voting Lows

Independent Students League and Student Representative Party slates and programs are announced in the two page supplement, pages six and seven, in this issue. Election story is on page 1.

Changes in election laws concerning who is eligible to vote in the forthcoming Student Government election, and the FEPC code, adopted by both parties, are also explained. . F^ 2

THE CHICAGO MAROON

October 15, 1954

Adler Returns to Open Works of Mind Ser ies

Mortimer J. Adler returns to UC tonight to make his annual opening address in University College’s Works of the Mind series, speaking on “The nature of intellectual work" in Kimball hall at 8 p.m.

Tickets to lecture are available at University College, 19 S. La Salle at $1.50 each.

An outstanding figure on the UC campus during the '30s and ’40s until he became director of the Institute of Philosophical Research in San Francisco, Adler was one of the creators of the Basic Program of Liberal Education for Adults and has been an associate editor of the Great Books of the Western World foundation since 1945.

Maroon Opens

Photo by Wolf

Explain rules

How well do UCers know their own campus?

To find out, the MAROON is starting a “Know the Quadrangles” contest, open to any member of the UC community.

The winner each week will be the first person who correctly identifies the mystery photograph which appears in the MAROON, and reaches the MAROON office with the answer.

The prize consists of a carton of cigarettes.

A sample of the little known kind of places pictured from unusual angles is the photo of one of the control rooms in Argonne Cancer research hospital. This week's mystery photograph appears on the left.

MAROON staff members and

their families are not eligible for contest participation.

Student, University Jobs Handled Through Employment Office

By Tajis Gardner

Students who want jobs, as well as just anyone who wants to work for the University are served by the employment office located on 58th and Ellis.

All non-academic jobs, ranging from baby sitting to glass blowing, are handled through this office in Ingleside hall, under the directorship of Fred Bjorling.

"The personnel office is stt up basically to administer non-academic jobs at the Univesity of Chicago, to integrate the business of correcting jobs to students and helping them to find jobs off the campus,” Bjorling stated.

In this capacity the office divides jobs into full-time and part-time, student and non-student, on campus end off-campus . classifications. The office has evolved gradually into its present position, and 13 persons are now employed there. During the past nine months : jproximately 1.500 persons have used the facilities of the office, and the number is expected to be well over 2,000 by the end of this year, according to available figures.

Originally the office maintained only a file of available jobs, and students selected those from the file which seemed most promising. This system has been replaced by an interview process,

which, according to the office, ik more satisfactory in all respects.

The office can match skills and jobs and have a better chance of satisfying both students and employers. In this system, possible employers can be checked before students are sent cut.

Mrs. Patricia Metcalf, interviewer in charge of student placement, asserted that this system satisfies everyone involved, and that “most of our employers are so loyal that it’s wonderful.”

The one open file remaining lists room and board openings— those which give a student his room in a private home in exchange for baby-sitting or other

services, and sometimes board in exchange for housework.

Another file of job situations is maintained— places where students in the past have secured off-campus jobs which have been particularly interesting. These places are recommended by Mrs. Metcalf to students who might be qualified.

All jobs, full-time, part-time, campus and off-campus, are listed and recommneded on a non-discriminatory basis, according to the office, in line with general University principles. Employers who desire to place openings with qualifications other than necessary skills are not

See ‘Student,’ page 12

ACASA Book Store

Scholarly used books Typewriters bought, sold and repaired

1117 E. 55th SL IH 3-9651

 ISAVE ’1.061 I EACH CALLON =

2.98

JUST SNAP IT Oft

new LAM

Light Diffuser

• • • to transform old fashioned fixtures into handsome contemporary lighting. Washable and nearly unbreakable white textured fiberglas 14" diameter. Fits all decors.

HERMANS

935 E. 55th Ml 3-6700

‘•big enough to serve you” '’small enough to u’ant to”

Picture Contest ITALIAN FIESTA PIZZERIA

Special Pizza 1/4 Sausage % Anchovy 1A Pepper ¥4 Mushroom

1427 E. 67th MU 4 ^

TABLE SERVICE

1

<

4 <

4

FREE DELIVERY TO U. of C. STUDENTS On orders over $2

Courteous Service Days a Week DELIVERY SERVICE

<

4

PERMANENT TYPE

ANTI-FREEZE

Per Callon

CASH AND CARRY

REGULAR PRICE AFTER THIS SALE S2.95

Will Not Boil Away — Lasts All Winter Conforms to U. S. Army Specifications Prevents Corrosion — Ethylene Glycol Type

Good for a Limited Time Only!

COME IN TODAY!

JEWELL SERVICE STATION

AND PERFECT CAR WASH

5601 South Cottage Grove

MU 4-9106

LAA

When you pause...moke it count...have a Coke

eoni ED UNDER AUTHORITY Of THE COCA-COLA COMPANY IV The Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Chicago, Inc.

^ *Ch**h • rtfl Hr<l trade-mack. O W53, Iha Coea Cofa C©Mpar| Oe Wber 15, 1954

THE CHICAGO MAROON

Photo by Cooper

Ruth and Wolf Hydebrand, exchange students who recently married, upsetting their living arrangements.

Exchange Students Get Married,

Where Can They Live Now?

Two German exchange students, Wolf Heydebrand and Ruth Keiling, here under the auspices of SG on the Frankfort Exchange program, have disrupted arrangements made by both SG and the office of Dean Strozier by being quietly married in Rockford, Illinois, two weeks ago.

The couple, fellow students in Frankfurt, were chosen out of a group of eight applicants last March and arrived in this country on September 11. Plans had been made for Mrs. Heydebrand, formerly Miss Keiling, to live at International house 

Harold Urey Airs Views

On Scientists, Secrets, Security

The adverse effects of public preoccupation with problems of security and espionage upon the recruiting and training of competent scientists was emphasized in a speech made last Friday by Harold C. Urey, Martin A. Ryerson distinguished service professor of chemistry and a member of the Institute of Nuclear Studies.

Frey spoke at a dinner given in his honor by the Chicago chapter of the American Institute of Chemists who presented him with their 1954 testimonial award.

Speaking on “Scientists, secrets, and security,” Urey stated that some degree of military strength is vital to American security, but that the scientific knowledge necessary to adequate military strength is being seriously curtailed by too much public intereference into porblems of security and espionage among scientists.

Accusations Destructive

Such episodes as the cross-fire of accusations surrounding Dr. Eiiward Condon and Dr. Robert Oppenheimer, and the publication of a book attacking large numbers of scientists who have worked on the hydrogen bomb, have created a tension in the field of science which is discouraging to people starting the long road to a scientific career.

“The entire field of secrecy, either of scientific or non-scientific matters, should not concern the average American more than about one per cent of the time that he gives to his responsibilities as a citizen,” said Urey.

Instead, he suggested, the Amer The finest bar of its class in the world

ican people should turn their attention to the far greater problem of improving primary and secondary schools from the standpoint of producing technical people, and of attracting a sufficient number of people who have natural ability in the exact sciences into college.

“We face in this country a nearcrisis in training scientists and engineers,” he stated.

Public Contented

A pre-requisite of any national security, Urey emphasized, is “an internal feeling of well-being of the body politic,” and the absence both of violent religious, political, and economic factionalism and of any feeling that great injustice exists for a substantial fraction of the population.

Such a condition of stability exand Wolf to live at one of the f ter. Since their marriage, the couple have been living in an apartment on Kenwood avenue, but moved early this week to an address on Dorchester avenue, beists in the United States at present, he asserted, and internal security against Communist philosophy is being strengthened by the vanishing of the small fraction of the populus to which Communist philosophy appeals—those without satisfactory jobs, social position or opportunities.

Commenting on American security in relation to the current international political scene. Urey felt that “most of our international problems could be handled more effectively if the western democracies created a limited super-government of limited powers of a federal type.” He suggested an organization based on the Atlantic union idea.

Kimpton to Meet Students at Teas

Educational interest teas have been scheduled by Student Government through Wednesday in Swift commons. The teas, at which Mrs. Kimpton will be present. are designed to give undergraduates an opportunity to meet the quadrangle faculty.

Yesterday the first tea of the series was held, with members of the physical sciences division present. Today’s tea will have present the law faculty; Monday the humanities and Tuesday the social science instructors will be on hand to meet students.

changing each quarcause the former place was, “too dirty.”

Under the conditions of their G-l visas, both are allowed twenty hours per week of part time work.

UC Pranksters Pilfer (?) Periscope

The periscope has been stolen from thb submarine now lodged behind the Museum of Science and Industry. Well, maybe not a real periscope, but a very good wooden model made for the museum by the US Navy at Portsmouth.

Museum officials say the object, about five feet long and eight inches in diameter, disappeared a week ago Friday. They added that it was dark out at the time and mentioned that they saw some fellows around previous to the periscope’s vanishing act.

Harvey B. Lemon, a former professor of physics at UC who is now an adviser at the museum, called Robert Strozier Monday on the matter. The museum had received an anonymous telephone call which tipped them off that the stolen periscope could be found at a fraternity house on the UC campus.

Strozier then called William Birenbaum, director of student activities. Birenbaum contacted George Stone, who is president of the interfraternity council. Stone checked all the fraternities. The report ... no periscope.

The police are baffled. The Washington park district station didn’t know the periscope had been stolen. While a squad car was cruising down 57th street Tuesday night a call was relayed to it. It purportedly originated from the Phi Kappa Psi fraternity. The tip named men of the Phi Sigma Delta fraternity guilty, so the patrolmen proceeded to their house on the double. When they arrived the Phi Sigs were engaged in divisional rushing. A thorough search of the house yielded nothing.

Wolf has three jobs and Ruth two which help defray the expenses of their small, third floor apartment and meals.

A sum amounting to one hundred and fifty-five dollars, originally earmarked for the cost of Miss Keiling’s meals at Foster

hall, will be given to the couple quarterly. They have no income other than their combined earnings and the SG fund.

Clive S. Gray, president of SG, said in an interview that, “Its happened (referring to the marriage) and we wish them all possible success. However, it is our experience that the best results, both for the foreign and American students are obtained when the foreign student lives in student accommodations. However, in this case, we are very fond of the Heydebrands and will do everything possible to help them.”

George Stone, president of the inter-fraternity council, said that a plan was before the council to offer meals to the Heydebrands at one of the houses, changing weekly. “We were, of course, looking forward to having Wolf at the houses, but will do everything in our power to help these people.”

Dean Strozier said that “the change in status will not affect the tuition and scholarships given under the exchange program. We were slightly disappointed (at the marriage) in that the idea of the program is to acquaint the foreign students with American conditions which could best be done through the fraternities and the facilities of International house. There has been no comment from the German end of the program as yet.”

Chess Battlers Meet in Tourney

Chess enthusiasts will have a chance this month to show their mettle, since the chess club has begun a University-wide tournament. Any student or faculty member is eligible to compete.

Games may be played either upon special arrangement or at the regular club meetings Tuesday nights at 8, in the Judson lounge. The tournament is being arranged so that players will usually meet opponents of their own strength.

Special Purchase!!

The new Gazelle

A Raleigh Product

• also • Hercules

• Rudge • Dawes

• Schwinn • Repairs

• Dunelt • Accessories

Jackson Park Bike Shop

5333 S. Lake Park

Sme ^l£u^

MIDWAY 3-4433

PHOTOGRAPHERS

1171 EAST 55th STREET

for a midnight snack

omar's is the place to eat

OMAR'S

Offer Agricultural Scholarships

The department of agriculture is offering $2,750 to $3,410 for subprofessional scientific work in cotton textile research, principally in Washington, D. C. and vicinity.

Successful applicants must be 18, must be citizens of or owe allegiance to the US, must pass an appropriate civil service examination, and must have fitting training or experience.

Further information ond application forms may be obtained from the US civil service commission, Washington 25, D. C., or at the central post office of Chicago, Conal and Van Buren streets.

READY

FOR DICTATION...

We are now able to offer a unique, new service to our customers . • • a telephone-tope recorder hook-up just dial HY 3-5343 for details of our service. If you are behind in your correspondence, or if you would like to dictate your manuscript, this may be your answer.

UV 4 CA44 HYDE PARK LETTER SHOP HT 0SW*W 5646 S. HARPER AVE.

Eye Examinations Visual Training

Dr. Kurt Rosenbaum

optometrist

1132 E. 55th Street

HYde Park 3-8372 Octe Ur 15, 1954

TH! CHICAGO MAROON

Issued ante weekly by Hie publisher. The Chicane Maroon, at the publication office, 5706 South University Avenue, Chicago 37, Illinois. Telephones: Editorial Office, Midway 3-0800, Ext. 1010; Business and Advertising Offices, Midway 3-0800, Ext. 1009. Distributed free of charge, and subscriptions by mail, $3 per year. Business Office hours: I to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday.

Alien R. Janger Richord E. Ward editor-in-chief managing editor

j Editors' Column |

Voting Advice

Will Be Available

Each year the Student Government ballot boxes on campus are surrounded by party member who supply pencils, party platforms, and free advice on exactly which square to mark. Since no voting booths are provided, this practice often •reaches distressing proportions, with candidates watching to see just who the voter picks.

The blame for this cannot be placed entirely on those campaigning since as long as some candidates engage in last minute electioneering, those who refrain from such actions art bound to lose votes.

It therefore seems the task of Student Government, which passes the laws pertaining to election procedure, to prevent this practice.

The present election law is less than effective. It provides that there shall be no campaign literature distributed or displayed or any electioneering carried on within ten feet of any ballot box, “wherever practicable.” The “wherever practicable” clause, in itself makes the law meaningless. Also no penalty is provided for candidates who break this law. Its enforcement, moreover, is put in the hands of the election and rules committee of SG—many of whose members are candidates.

Since crowds around the ballot boxes are large, often it is necessary to remove the ballot at least 20 feet and in many cases further from the ballot box in order to mark it. Ten feet is thus a very unrealistic distance. At this distance, a practiced candidate can easily see how the student casts his ballot.

It is important for the future of SG that the following points be provided in a new and better law:

1) No literature should be posted in such a way that it can be read from the polling area.

2 A table near the polling box should be provided at which ballots must be marked, and at which no electioneering is allowed. ,

3) No candidate should be allowed to watch any voter mark bis ballot.

4) Violators should be subject to a penalty, such as disqualification, strong enough to insure compliance.

5) A procedure should be provided by which non-candidates may initiate action against candidates who break the law.

6) A tribunal should be provided to decide such cases of infraction composed of non-candidates, such as the student court.

Until such action is forthcoming, the major political groups will continue to electioneer near the polls, and frustrated voters will struggle in vain to keep their ballots secret.

Alien R. Janger

Joy Hnrhach

"Take Trouble to Vote''

Asks Gray, SG Prexy

“Student Government lias come a long way toward serving the student body in the last year,” Clive Gray, president of SG, said this week in commenting on the forthcoming elections. “I hope that people will show their appreciation of this effort by at least taking the trouble to vote.”

According to SG voting regulations, a vote may be cast by appropriately marking an individual’s name, or simply turning in a ballot unmarked or with less than the maximum number of candidates marked. The effect of the latter vote is an abstention which makes it ignore difficult for any candidate to obtain a majority in the balloting.

There will be one more seat available in SG this year. Computed on the basis of enrollment, college representation is up two

Leiters Welcomed

The Maroon welcomes letters from its readers. Any coin ments on matters of interest to the University community are appropriate subject matter.

Letters should not exceed 250 words. Letters exceeding this limit will be subject to editing. .

The Maroon will not consider for publication letters which do not bear the author’s signature. However, the author’s name will be withheld from publication upon request.

Letters should be addressed to Editor, Chicago Maroon, 5706 University Ave.

Letters Grey challenged

Editor, The Maroon

Clive Gray’s report on the NS A conference in last week's Maroon clearly shows that he stands against student exchange with the Soviet Union. This means that he is opposed to US students participating in one of the most practical and important programs for the easing of the tensions of the Cold War. Gray’s action at the NS A Congress, where ho was one of the most important leaders against student exchange with the Soviet Union (as reported in the Chicago Tribune> points out that lie is not limiting himself to a passive role. This active opposition to exchange directly contradicts both the ISL and SRP platforms in the NS A election and the pre-Congress position of the entire_U. of C. NS a delegation (See Maroon Aug. 6).

Gray tries to justify his person al opposition to student exchange with the Soviet Union by arguing that exchange and discussion betweet Soviet and US students can not bring about any understanding or communication. Titis is just a student version of the old can* ard pushed by the generals that war is inevitable and therefore negotiations and understanding is impossible. Perhaps Gray's label of the ‘‘intransigent Soviet men tality” might more aptly be applied to himself and the likes of him. For it is they who refuse to admit that there are new possibilities for peace, and that there have been successful negotiations recently.

During the summer there were two more delegations of US students touring the Soviet Union. There was a magnificent exchange of ministers at the World Council of Church meeting in Evanston. According to Mr. Gray’ the clergyman from Czechoslovakia should not have been able to understand the viewpoint of the clergymen from Chicago. Yet these ministers were able to un derstand one another, and jointly came out for co-existence of different political systems. They also called for a ban on the H-bomb By this very meeting and exchange of opinions, t he clergymen

No More

Scratched ID

seats, and the law and medical schools are both up one. On the other hand, physical sciences, biological sciences, and business are each down one seat.

The following number of members will be elected from each section of the university: college. 13; social sciences, 10; physical sciences, 4; humanities, 4; medical, 3; law, 3; FTS, 3; biological sciences, 2; SSA, 2; business, 1; Grad. Library, 1.

Students voting in Student Government elections will no longer have the validations on their ID cards scratched. A new system, notching the cards on their sides, has been deviseri.

Students must present their ID cards at balloting tables in order to vote. The cards are marked to prevent plural voting.

Previous methods involved scratching the validation. Deep scratching, however, damaged the cards; and people unacquainted with the University, such as draft boards and discount services, thought the validation was cancelled by the'marks.

The new method devised by William Seltzer, working in cooperation with Albert C. Cotton,'bursar of the University, will not dam age the card.

gave lie to the State Department and Mr. Gray’s position that negotiations and understanding between East and West are impossible.

In a similar way, a reciprocal student exchange with the Soviet Union can also go a long way in breaking down the harriers of the cold war. We are confident that the students at the U. of Chicago would be interested in a visit of Soviet students here.

Paula and Harold Baron I visitor Youth league

NSA national scored

Dear Sirs:

It was with much interest that I read Clive Gray's article on the 7th National Student Association Congress, in the last MAROON; in particular, the paragraphs in which he ascribes to the 70(1 delegates to the Congress an “irresponsibility” not in accord with the best interests of the NSA. and speaks of the need for the NSA staff to control any such manifestations.

As a representative of this campus to the NSA. however. I must point out that the NSA is a democratic Representative organization; the ultimate authority on all questions, and in particular the policy-making power reside within the plenary convention of 7(H) delegates from individual schools. They represent and are chosen by American students; the NSA staff and National Executive Committee has no right to attempt to dictate policy decisions to the Congress. For example, the action of the NSA official who brought into the Commission on International Affairs a number of foreign

INTERNATIONAL HOUSE MOVIE PROGRAM

Assembly Holl, Monday and Thursday Evening at 8

Monday, Oct. 18—Dance Film Festival with Velerie Bettis Jose Limon, Lucas Hovins, Uanova .Lakshim Worse Singh, end Australian Ballet Groups. Admission 45c.

Thursday, Oct. 21—Rain 1 American (. Based an story by W. Somerset Maughom. Admission 35c.

Your church away from home UNIVERSITY CHURCH OF DISCIPLES OF CHRIST 5655 University (Opposite Bartlett Gym)

Communion 10:30 a.m. Morning Worship 11 a.m.

Fellowship Dinners — Friday and Sunday Wranglers (supper and discussion)—Sunday, 6 00 p.m. '48 Club (couples) —Fourth Saturday, 8:00 p.m.

DOrchester 3-8142 for information and reservations

%• •♦• *•♦ •** •♦* •♦♦ •♦* **••♦• **♦ *•* *♦• *♦* •♦• ••* *• *♦• *•* ••• v *•• ••* %• ••*•*• *•• ••* •♦**♦• •• • *•••♦•**• *•• •*• ••* •♦• ^ • ••* *••*•* ••♦•** ••**•• ♦•***• V •*

? TO MEMBERS OF THE COMMUNITY AT LARGE ‘

J The Temple Isaiah Israel $

Choral Society X

directed by Andrew Foldi $

X invites you to join in the preparation . $

of a concert celebrating $

| THE AMERICAN JEWISH TERCENTENARY :

£ Rehearsals on Temple Isaiah Israel

Y Thursdays at 8:30 p.m. Community House, Room 26 T

First Meeting Oct. 21 5039 S. Greenwood X

 *•**♦* •♦* *♦***• *♦* **• •♦* *** **• •** •** *♦**>* *•***• •** %* ♦** •#* •/ *** *** **• *♦“ *•**♦• **• *♦**•*%••*•*•* *•***• **••• **• *♦**♦* *♦* ********* ♦*• *•* ***

Gifts • Gourmet's Can er • Stationery

We have large white Japanese Teapots 6-cup size $3.50 • Teacups, 49c each

students to speak against student exchange with Soviet Russia, but none of the many foreign students present whose experience favored such exchange, was entirely inexcusable. The situation reflects .the tendency of the functionaries of any democratic organization to look upon that organization as an end in itself, rather than as a medium for the advancement of the aims of its members. In this case, the NSA staff apparently felt that the NSA's “respectability” might be endangered if it took stands on any issues.

Robert W. Floyd

(NSA SRP Phy. Set)

SG Arm of Dean

As an old student who has seen quite a few efforts put forth by the politically active members of the student body, I must con gratulate the Student Government in its latest super-colossal service mart in a wire cage. The service is a proper diversion for those who might otherwise be inclined to represent the students by whom they were elected.

It has too often proven embarrassing to the administration of our university for those in respectable SG positions to clamor for student rights, the college plan, academic freedom, and other minor issues. The wire cage Is appropriately confining for such people.

We are proud of an SG which has recognized its value as an extension of the Dean of Students office and especially happy that it squashed the radical efforts of those who would have had a b*rok co op instead.

Critic October 15, 1954

Walgreen Lectures Starting Soon

Public lectures under the Charles R, Walgreen Foundation for the Studs- of American Institutions will begin on October 25.

The lecturers for the autumn quarter are Sidney E. Mead, associate professor of history of American Christianity; Clarence B. Randall, cluiirman of the Inland Steel company, formerly chairman of the U. S. Commission on Foreign Economic Policy; and Walter Johnson, professor of American history and chairman of the department of history.

• rhe Shape of Protestantism in America,” is the topic of the first series of lectures to be given by Mead. They will be held in Room 122 of the Social Science research building at 1126 East 59th, October 25, 26. 28 and 29 at 4:30 p.m.

Presents Plan For Institute on Local Relations

The establishment of “neighborhood institute”

a at

UCers Take Humanities,

French in Faroff Locales

What have VICEROYS got that other filter tip cigarettes haven't got ?

UC was proposed at Tuesday night’s Student Government metting by Ralph Fertig, chairman of the University neighborhood committee.

The plan of the institute, as described in Fertig’s bill, is “to offer (in symposium form) courses of instruction and approaches for integration of public, private, volunteer and corporate groups’ interest in human relations, community conservation, renewal or redevelopment, and public policy.”

A motion empowering the commission on the neighborhood to “enter into discussions with appropriate administration and faculty personnel” regarding the proposal was passed unanimously by the assembly.

Fertig reported that many people in the various areas had received no special training in their jobs and none had the benefits of an integrated approach.

He was of the opinion that such an institute would be welcomed by people in the field. “Bringing these people together on this cam Two regular college courses taught during the summer quarter were given the added attraction of a different locale again this year. French I was taught in Paris, and humanities I classes were held at Aspen, Colorado.

“It was a good summer”—at least for the nine students who took French on the scene. George L. Playe, who was in

THE ANSWER IS 20,000 FILTERS IN EVERY VICEROY TIP

Inside every Viceroy tip is a vast network of 20,000 individual filters to filter your smoke over and over again. You get only the full, rich taste of Viceroy’s choice tobaccos and Viceroys draw so freely.

Yes, you get Viceroy’s remarkable new tip with 20,000 individual filters plus king-size length for only a penny or two more than cigarettes without filters.

pus,” he said, “would be a and useful thing.”

Cap and Gown

fine

Elects Officers

Mike Rogers, newly elected editor of the campus annual. Cap and Gown, announced the appointments of Paul Hoffman and Mary Spiegel as associate editors and Bill Seckinger as business manager, at their first meeting last Monday.

Rogers referred to plans for a “bigger and better annual, as original and well done as the tradition here at the University demands.”

The “bigger and better” annual goes to press on March 12, 1955, and it is scheduled for distribution June 1.

charge of the course, added that, “The total effect was a great success.”

Instruction began on the boat going over, which rounded the coast of Ireland and landed at Le Havre. Base of operations was the Cite Universitaire, part of the University of Paris. The students, who stayed at the Belgian pavilion, experienced something new in co educational dormitories. The girls especially had some trouble adjusting to co-ed toilets and showers. No untoward difficulties were reported, though.

Speak French

Classes were held three hours a day, five days a week, with language I once a week. The course was the same as taught here on campus, but with an added emphasis on conversational French.

Besides heavy impromptu coverage of Paris, the students took several group tours. Reims. Tours, Mont St. Michel, San Mialo, Versailles, Chartes, and Fontainebleau were all visited. Good food was plentiful, with prices about the same as in the U. S., in spite of the psychological effect of spending francs at roughly the rate of 350 for $1.

The comprehensive exam was taken in Paris the last day of August. Mr. Playe mentioned that the students did very well.

classes were held twice a day. Boys stayed in the smaller adjoining ski barn.

Social life wasn’t neglected. A picnic at Maroon lake, a visit to the ghost town of Ashcroft, and a 40-minute trip from 7,900 feet to 11,300 feet on a chair ski lift provided breaks from the books.

There were no failures on the comprehensive. It was given in the new seminar building, and the essay topic was the room in which the test was taken.

WORLD’S LARGEST-SELLING FILTER TIP CIGARETTE

Keiv

Only a Penny or Two More than Cigarettes Without Filters

• *

King-Size Kilter Tip ,

Viceroy

A few of them also took French IT comp.

Course Strenuous

“Strenuous, but fine,” was lard P. Binyon’s report of

the

Milhis

Five Debaters

Head for Purdue

Student Forum debaters will attend the seventh annual Purdue invitational Forensic Conference this weekend where five UC debaters will meet in clash debate teams from 16 colleges selected for leadership in their areas.

Among universities represented at the Purdue conference this,year are Notre Dame, Purdue, U. S. Military Academy, University of Pittsburgh, and Utah.

Debaters selected from Forum members to represent the affirmative on the topic, “Resolved: That the U. S. should extend recognition to Communist China,” are Donald Mc Clintock and Roger Bowen. Upholding the negative will be Edward Renshaw and Jo See the delightful handmade pendants for fall by

rosemary zwick

*2&*3

University Bookstore 5802 Ellis Ave. and Bordelon Designs 1424 E. 55th St.

impression of the humanities course he taught this summer.

Facilities were excellent for the 14 students, he said. Various aspects of the large and complex Aspen institute included the Aspen art school and three musical concerts a week. There was also a student recital each week. The girls lived in the Gay 90’s house where hour-and-a-half informal

seph Engel. John Merrill

serve as discusion

Marvin Phillips,

Forum, will

Following ment, UC teams from

leader

director

will and

of

be critic-judge.

the Purdue tournadebaters will meet Northwestern, Bradley, and University of Michigan.

LOUISE BARKER

Photographer

VOTE!

1457 E. 57th St.

BU 8-0876

hyde park theatre

on lake park at 53rd

Important Announcement

COMING

FRIDAY, OCT. 22

LA RONDE

no 7 9071 hyde park theatre

student rate 50c

Beginning Friday, Oct. 15

Lake Park at 53 rd

COMO

Vittorio de Sica's latest and greatest

“INDISCRETION OF AN AMERICAN WIFE”

“BICYCLE THIEF”

PIZZERIA

The wide range- of Vittorio de Sica's directorial genius is admirably displayed in this program combining his latest production ... a romantic melodrama, made in Italy, but spoken in English with an all English speaking cast his greatest production of all the great master1520 E.55th St

• Bar be cue chicken

piece of □ ward, a prizes.

Italian realism which was honored by the NY Film Critics special academy award, and a large number of international

Also UPS's latest and greatest

Fudgets Budget* and Edgar Allan Poe's Telltale Heart

• Bar be cue ribs

Delivery Anywhere

FA 4-5525 Page 6 THE CHICAGO M A R 00 N*October 15, 1954

SRP and ISL State Their Aims

ISL Concept of SG

by CLIVE GRAY, ISL member

Now in its fifth year as the majority party in Student Government, the Independent Students League approaches next week’s election in the hope of receiving another opportunity to serve the student body. Since its founding in 1948, ISL has endeavored to learn from the campus what is expected of Student Government, and in formulating its platforms it has

promised to serve the campus in the most practical ways possible. ISL realizes that Student Government has yet a long way to go before the campus views it as a completely responsible and representative organ of student opinion and student service. But this is the ultimate objective of ISL’s policy in Student Government, and the ISL candidates in this election promise to work toward it by continuing and increasing the conscientious services built up by previous ISL Student Governments.

The idea of Student Government as an organ of student service was also what motivated the first ISL group to organize and campaign in an SG election back in 1948, just over a year since the establishment of Student Government at University. At that time most of the representatives in SG considered the body a forum for debating virtually all major political issues upon which the prevailing philosophy of students in general and C students especially took a “progressive” stand. The

SRP Platform

University of Chicago students face many real problems. Living and educational expenses are high, academic freedom is under attack, discrimination is still with us, and we find barriers growing between ourselves and students in

many parts of the world.

In the belief that student action, well considered and vigorously Implemented, can make effective and worthwhile contributions towards the lessening of these

problems, program.

SRP suggests the following

WE NEED STUDENT GOVERNMENT:

TO EASE STUDENTS’ ECONOMIC BURDENS, SRP pledges to

1. Initiate projects for student cooperative housing, eating and bookbuying.

Such projects have In the past been frustrated by administration opposition, but could be realized if an independent source of funds were available.

SRP will work with the newly formed NSA committee on co-operatives, will initiate independent fund-raising projects and continue to work for such measures as the quarterly fee, which last year as a referendum received the endorsement of a majority of voters, although not the requisite two-thirds. A fee of this type would prove insignificant when compared with the savings possible.

2. Request that the administration obtain housing as comparable lowlevel rentals for the 350 families residing in pre-fabs which are to be torn down. We will urge conferences between these students and the administration so that residents will be aware of university plans and the removal to other quarters be smoothly effected.

3 Work for the establishment of a #1 hourly minimum wage for student employees of the University.

TO DEFEND ACADEMIC FREEDOM

The University of Chicago has an outstanding tradition of academic freedom. We are proud that our University is one of the few that did not dismiss professors who refused to testify before Investigating committees.

The political climate created by the heresy hunt is a continuing threat to the University and necessitates the active defense of this tradition. In order that SG may contribute to this effort:

1. SRP will continue to act upon the principle that academic competence is the only criterion for the employment of faculty.

2. SRP will enforce strict observation of the Student Bill of Rights to insure that student organizations are recognized regardless of their political views and may hear speakers of their choice.

3. SRP will again support and will work to encourage full campus participation in Academic Freedom week. To be successful the week’s activities should engage the whole campus, the various organizations as well as individual students, in discussing the problems of maintaining academic freedom.

TO CO-OPERATE WITH FACULTY AND ADMINISTRATION

SRP believes that the common interests of students, faculty and administration could better be served by increased co-operation, in both academic and non-academic matters, where the opinions of all are considered and the rights of all maintained.

We suggest:

1. An expanded student-faculty relations committee, placed on a realistic basis and including more students.

2. A course evaluation program, which would enable students from each department to meet with faculty for critical discussion.

TO COMBAT DISCRIMINATION

SRP believes that all, regardless of race, religion, or natural origin, deserve equal opportunity for education. Education limited by segregation and discrimination for some means limited education for all. As an influential member of the community, the Univer•Ity should formulate and act upon a policy of complete integration.

SRP in Student Government will:

1 Co-operate with NSA and other

records of the 1947-48 Student Assembly picture, among other gems, a debate on the Communist coup in Czechoslovakia and the Smith Act trial of 11 Communist leaders.

Oppose Authority

But the first ISL members saw in this attitude an unreasonable assumption by SG of authority never granted it by the student body, so they campaigned then, as we are doing now, to make Student Government first and foremost campus-oriented. ISL won its first SG election in autumn 1948, and under the direction of president Alex Pope, set about creating responsible student selfgovernment where before there had been little more than agitation and debate over “principles.” A permanent contribution of the first ISL Student Government was the Student Book Exchange, located first in Ida Noyes Hall, later in Cobb, and at present in the Reynolds Club, where last year’s SG combined it with several other student services.

groups, such as NAACP, and with our fellow students at other schools in supporting implementation of the Supreme Court decision on discrimination in education.

2. Propose that SG, in conjunction with faculty and administration, adopt the Fair Educational Practices code proposed by the UC chapter of NAACP, including the following:

a) All entrance requirements or quotas based on religion, race or national origin shall be abolished.

b) All forms of discrimination in housing, whether in dormitories or officially approved residences shall be abolished. Other housing which gets preferential treatment, e.g. listings or recommendations to students, faculty or employees, shall be limited to non-discriminatory housing units.

c) All University Jobs shall be filled on the basis of ability and need only. Discriminatory employers shall not be listed by the University’s employment office.

d) University recognition shall be granted only to those campus groups that do not actually discriminate on the basis of race, religion or national origin. Any campus organization unable or unwilling to comply shall lose Its campus recognition.

3. Urge that such a code be adopted by the state legislature, as a step in the direction of racial equality in American society, which alone can make a truly meaningful equal educational opportunity for all.

TO ESTABLISH INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGE

SRP feels that dement Attlee’s statement. “Co-existence or co-extermlnatlon,” is a timely one. A relaxation of present international tensions Is essential if there is to be a future in which we can exercise our skills and practice our professions. We feel that there are concrete contributions which Student Government can make in this direction.

International exchange of students is the most effective means by which students may help lessen international tensions. SRP believes that:

1. SG should work with NSA to expand student exchange programs with all countries.

2. Since the greatest danger to peace comes from the tension existing between the United States and the Soviet Union, there should be an effort to institute a two-way exchange program between these countries.

3. In the event that governmental restrictions makes the exchange of students Impossible, communication should be established through the exchange of exhibits and cultural material between this University and others abroad.

4. In view of the fact that four groups of American students have toured the Soviet Union during the past year, but Russian students wishing to tour the United States have thus far been refused visas, SG should press for the granting of visas to students from all countries.

TO OPPOSE MILITARIZATION

Universal military training Is based upon the presupposition of inevitable war. SRP believes that Student Government should:

1. Inform the campus In detail about the new UMT proposals of the Eisenhower administration, which have the intended effect of “psychological conditioning.”

2. Guarantee that there will be a co-ordinated and effective expression of student sentiment against these proposals to Congress.

WHAT KIND OF STUDENT GOVERNMENT?

Student Government has been more

See ‘SRP platform,’ page 11

During the first months of its existence, Student Government was a rather unsteady organization in which the Administration was reluctant to place any significant trust or authority. So another task which the first ISLers saw very clearly was to persuade the Administration that a continuing and representative student organ could be granted increasing authority over student affairs. ISL Student Governments in 1948, 1949, and 1950 negotiated with the Dean of Students on this point, with the result that a Statute of Powers was finally granted Student Government. The Statute gave SG the authority to recognize student organizations and enact regulations governing them, subject to the approval of the Administration. The most important legislation passed by Student Government under this provision was the Michigan Plan, regarding organizations with discriminatory membership clauses in their constitutions, which an ISL Student Government enacted in 1951.

Pass on Code

In 1950 negotiations were completed for the establishment of a Court, which was to have jurisdiction in cases arising under the Student Code, Regulations, Statute of Powers of Student Government, and the SG Constitution. The Court, which contains a student majority, asserted its jurisdiction against the Administration in the MAROON case of late 1951. At that time the editor of the MAROON was removed by the Dean of Students in seeming contravention of the Student Code. The power of the Court received a definite setback in the case, but most of the parties involved felt the prestige of the Court and the weight of the entire Student Government had

made quite a dent in the united forces behind the Dean’s action.

A third major step forward in student self-government was taken by last year’s ISL Student Government, which won Administration approval for a plan whereby student organizations partly subsidized from the student activities fund will have a say in the allocation of this fund. ISL’s goal in this matter is to obtain complete financial autonomy for the student groups involved.

Reflect Concern

• Aside from its emphasis on the development of student self-government, ISL has represented and expressed unambiguous student concern on the issue of academic freedom. It helped found in 1949 the first All-Campus Civil Liberties Committee, to which representatives of all campus organizations were invited to discuss the issues raised by the Broyles Bills, introduced into the Illinois Legislature then and during the following two legislative sessions. Every other year the campus has been aroused by the threat of these Bills, which trespass on all constitutional safeguards for freedom of speech. And each time a campus leader who belonged to ISL has chaired the ACCLC, and testified before a committee of the State Legislature to bring responsible student opinion to bear against the Broyles Bills.

The most evident of ISL’s efforts in SG have been those devoted to creating services for the student body in areas not dealt with by the Administration. The best-known examples of these are the Student Book Exchange, Ticket Agency, Mimeograph Service, and Loan Service, all of which operated separately for periods of a month to six years, until they were centralized last April in the Reynolds Club.

ISL Platform

The Independent Students League (ISL) was founded in 1948 by a group of students who believed that responsible self-government In extra-curricular affairs is a vital part of the educational process. Since then, ISL has worked through Student Government to implement student opinion on matters directly affecting the student body, and to establish programs for serving the material needs of students.

ISL believes that Student Government should concentrate Its efforts in areas which pertain to students as students. and particularly to the problems of our campus. At the same time we recognize our responsibility to consider off-campus questions of direct interest to students and to the University community, such as Fair Educational Practices legislation, academic freedom, federal aid to education, and the University neighborhood. However, ISL beliefs that Student Government should not pretend to speak for our diversified student body on general problems of national and International politics.

ISL’s most positive emphasis In SG has been In the field of student services, where we have organized programs to save students money and to serve important student needs. This platform outlines the work of 1953-54*8 ISL Student Government, and presents the program we will follow In the new 1954-55 Student Government.

STUDENT SERVICE CENTER. A major achievement of the present ISL-led Student Government was the creation of the Student Service Center. The Student Book Exchange, Ticket Agency, Mimeograph Service, and Railroad Discount Service were centralized in one location, and are now operated several hours daily by a permanent staff. In addition, a Student Loan Service was installed for the first time.

ISL will expand these services by:

1) Widening the new policy of ordering second-hand book consignments from downtown dealers;

2) Expanding the coverage of the Ticket Agency, extended this past year to the Lyric Theater Guild and the Shubert Theaters;

3) Increasing the Loan Service funds by SG approbation; and

4) Publicizing and extending further the vacation-trip Railroad Discount Service.

ISL will also provide these new services:

1) The reactivated SG non-discriminatory housing-file, repealed by an SRPdominated Assembly in 1952-53;

2) A Student Publicity Service, where students can have posters made at cost and placed promptly on bulletin boards;

3) An Indexed file of second-hand goods for sale to students:

4) A register through which commuting students desiring rides or riders could be brought together;

5) A register listing tutorial services available to students desiring special help in courses; and

6) A file of summer job opportunities. REDUCING STUDENT COSTS. ISL will develop programs to reduce student costs in three basic areas:

1) CHEAPER HOUSING—Last year’s ISL-SG won the support of a committee of UC Trustees for the idea of a student housing co-operative. The next ISL Student Government will search for a house for sale or rent near the campus in which conversion to a co-op would be possible under zoning and building laws. We will also seek financial support for the project in the form of a University loan

2) CHEAPER EATING—A new ISL-SG

ISL Slate

College

Virginia Bickerstaff

Peter Carmel

Al Fortier

Eiichi Fukushima

Bob Heavilin

Ralph Henkle

Dewey Jones Emil Johnson Bob Kurland Jan Metros Jean Raphael Bob Reichler

Mary Joan Spiegel

Social Science

Muriel Baron

Joy Smith Burbach Don Cass Stan Fox Clive Gray

Bruce Mac Lachlan

Arthur Solomon Jane Stanford Dave Utley Dick Weiss

Law School

George Stone

Barbara Vogelfanger

Harold Ward

Physical Sciences

Mario E. Baur

Robert Giedt

Byron Rainey Elias M. Stein

Federated Theological Schools

Jack Campbell Roland Delattre Clark Kucheman

Biological Sciences

Gary Friedman

Martin Gouterman

Business School

Pat Parker

School of Medicine

Daniel Offer Norman Rose

Social Service Administration

Dorothy Ingersoll

Charlotte Schpoont

Graduate Library School

Jerry O’Mara

Humanities

Jim Camp

Lou Schaefer

Romeyn Taylor

Jerrold Zisook

will begin preparations for a student eating co-operative.

3) CHEAPER BOOKS—Inasmuch as University Bookstore prices are excessively high for both texts and syllabi. ISL will press for an agreement whereby the Student Service Center can sell certain new texts at prices near cost.

In addition, an ISL Student Government will negotiate with the Administration to press for special student housing arrangements in the neighborhood for students displaced by the demolition of University pre-fabs. SG will suggest that University-owned buildings now operated commercially for profit be devoted to occupancy by students.

TUITION. We believe that the basic problem of student costs is high tuition, and we propose two specific approaches to the solution of this problem:

1) The tuition increase In 1952 resulted In reduced tuition revenue because of the large decline in enrollment, as SG predicted at that time. We, therefore, propose that the University undertake a substantial and well-publicized tuition reduction with a view to increasing revenue by attracting more students.

2) Chancellor Kimpton should take the lead in organizing university educators in support of a federal scholarship program on these lines:

a. Scholarships would be awarded to students in all fields of knowledge, on the basis of national competitive examinations;

b. The recipients of the scholarships would be free to attend any accredited institution;

c. The program would be administered by professional educators, thus avoiding federal regulation of education.

CIVIL LIBERTIES. ISL vigorously supports equality of opportunity for all students without regard to race, color, religion, or creed. Through Student Government, ISL has worked to eliminate discrimination on campus and in the University community.

Michigan Plan

SG’s most difficult problem last year involved the “Michigan Plan,” enacted by SG In 1951. which provided that after 1953 no student organization could remain on campus whose constitution required It, even If unwillingly, to discriminate on the basis of race or religion. Last year only one campus group, a fraternity, still had such a constitution. In the face of loud demands by the minority party that the fraternity should be expelled at once, ISL decided that the deadline should be extended until after the national fraternity convention In September. Thus the local chapter would have a chance to achieve final elimination of the discriminatory clause from Its constitution. Last month the fraternity successfully eliminated the clause, and ISL believes that this Important blow against discrimination fully Justifies our decision to allow the fraternity Jo remain on campus a few months longer.

Non-Dis( riminatory Housing File

During the coming year, an ISL Student Government will revive the SG non-discriminatory housing file. Established In 1952 when the Administration refused to eliminate discriminatory listings from Its own file, the SG housing file could work, and that students were sufficiently interested in the problem to see that it did. Unfortunately, the file was abolished in 1952-53 when SRP controlled Student Government. Their alternative—to present petitions to the Administration demanding that it mend its ways—brought no action at all. Now the Student Service Center, with its regular hours, will be an ideal location for the revived housing file.

Fair Educational Practices

ISL will cooperate wtih various groups on campus to work out a Fair Educational Practices Code for the University of Chicago. In addition it will contact this area’s state senators and representatives to enlist their support for Fair Educational Practices legislation in the State Legislature.

ACADEMIC FREEDOM. ISL believes that the right of teachers to teach and students to learn should be determined solely by academic competence. As a means of implementing the general student agreement on this proposition, ISL will reactivate the All-Campus Civil Liberties Committee, formed of representatives from all campus groups during the State Legislature sessions of 1949, 1951, and 1953 to combat the Broyles Bills and other proposed legislation tending to restrict free speech. ISL will also sponsor activities in connection with the NSA endorsed Academic Freedom Week In April.

NATIONAL STUDENT ASSOCIATION. ISL members have been active in the National Student Association since its founding here In 1946, and an ISL member is now chairman of NSA’s National Executive Committee. An ISL Student Government will continue to cooperate fully with NSA, particularly in these aspects:

1) Information about NSA low-cost summer tours of Europe will be made available in the Student Service Center and arrangements for 1955 tours may be made there;

2) The NSA student discount system will be expanded to more neighborhood stores; and

3) Student Government will carry on its contacts with foreign student associations through NSA.

FOREIGN EXCHANGE. The SG Frankfurt exchange program, one of the first student-managed programs in the nation, was founded by an ISL SG in 1951 Through the program, two UC students go to Frankfurt and two Frankfurt students come to Chicago each year. The financial basis of the program consists in support from the two universities, as well as (on the UC side) the fraternity system, University Theater, and Student Government itself. ISL will make efforts to make the necessary financial arrangements for extending the program to another country, probably India.

INCREASING STUDENT SELF GOVERNMENT. Last year’s ISL Student Government negotiated with the University Administration in the question of allocating student activities funds, and won the Administration’s approval for a plan whereby representatives

See ‘ISL Pktform; page 7 October 15, 1954

THE CHICAGO MAROON

Parties Give Histories and Slates

As a special service to the student body of the University of Chicago, the Maroon is printing this two-page supplement in advance of the Student Government elections. The material on these pages is designed to inform the student The Maroon does not endorse either party or their candidates.*

SRP Slate

College

Shirley Long

Carolyn Eggert

Janice Porter

Karl Rodman

Suzanne Friedmann

Ann Brooks Huddleson Barbara Klein Jean Gourfain Davis Bobrow Noel Pearlman Robert Sbarge Robert Stein Jerry Seifert

Phy Sci

IVIonroe Tngberman Matt Prastein Robert March Morris Hirsch

ITS

Christopher Smith

Lon Speer

GLS

Barbara Birthwright

Hum

Doris Cooperson

Dale Chapman Palmer Pinney Jerrold Levy

Law

Michael Gordon

Ward Wright

Michael Wyatt

Soc Sci

Morton Lieberman Caroline Swenson Milt Kotler

Rhoda Sadigur Paul Breslow Robert Thomas Don Anderson James Flynn Ann Casselman Graff Robert Trees

Bi Sci

Larry Lichtenstein Joseph Yavit

SRP History Told

by Patil Breslow, president of SRP

On October 17, (1942j)fhe Maroon reported the formation of a new campus political party, the Student Representative Party (SRP), arising from the amalgamation of three liberal student groups.

SRP’s first platform sharply criticized the previous (ISL) Student Government for its retreat on discriminatory housing;

its dangerous Maroon “Advisory Board,” which smacked of possible censorship of the campus press; failure to act on cooperative solutions to the students economic problems and continual depreciation of the need for campus participation in SG policymaking and activity.

The SRP platform declared, "SRP asserts that there exists among a substantial group of students the feeling that SG has ceased to play an important role in student affairs.”

SRP felt that ISL had failed to act in defense of civil liberties and said, “We maintain and shall act upon the principle that not only academic freedom but full civil liberties for all people regardless of belief is a worthy student objective.”

ISL Refuses Co-operation

The newly formed SRP won a majority of seats in the SG of 1952-53, although it received less than 40 per cent of the vote. (A third party, the Independent Coalition, had run a campaign devoted largely to accusations of pro-Communism against both ISL and SRP. Now that IC is no longer with us, such tactics have been adopted by ISL campaigners.)

The ISL refused to co-operate in assuming any responsibility whatsoever in the’ new SG. SRP has repeatedly affirmed its will Photo by Sam Tipton

Student Government members in conference. From left to

right: Jan Metros, Jim Handler, Monica Kozasa, Clive Gray.

ingness to co-operate with any groups in carrying out its program.

Despite the obstacles of the lack of support from a majority of the campus and ISL unco-operativeness, the SRP-SG made an impressive record.

Support Free Press

Among other things SG under SRP repealed the Maroon Advisory Board and supported the principle of a free student press; established the Commission on the University Neighborhood; conducted a petition campaign in support of a non-discriminatory housing file; made the first porposals and began work on cooperative eating, housing and book-buying services; re-established the All Campus Civil Liberties Committee; organized an active defense against the Jenner committee’s visiting inquisition; held the first Academic Freedom Week on campus, which featured Senator Wayne Morse as principal speaker; worked to expand the SG exchange program to bring in countries other than Germany, including those under Communist control; established a democratic replacement policy for SG and played a leading role in the effort to save the Hutchins College Plan from extermination. SRP continued and expanded previous student needs programs of value, while abandoning such services as the hat and coat checking stand and the proposed lemonade stand, which seemed to us to be of dubious value.

In the field of co-operative services, SRP worked out detailed and practical plans for a housing coop, which would have made good housing available for about $5 a week, a book-buying service to obtain discounts on new textbooks and a snack bar for hot sandwiches and coffee during the day and evening in the Reynolds Club basement. These plans were frustrated by administration unwillingness to advance funds. SRP believes that they are still feasible and has proposed methods of raising funds independently of the administration.

Increase Popularity

SRP increased its popular vote considerably in the next two elections, for NSA delegates and SG, although it did not win a majority at either election.

As the minority party in the Student Government of 1953-54, SRP indicated its desire to cooperate with the majority. Again ISL insisted on all the say or none at all.

SRP opposed such ISL moves as amending the Michigan Plan when it found the administration unwilling to enforce the agreement, the change in the nature of the Student Government Commission so that it concerned itself only with procedural problems and its continual preoccupation with trivial rules of procedure and legal manipulation.

SRP feels that this past year’s SG has been characterized by an attitude of majority partisanship for its own sake and a failure to undertake positive action in the areas of discrimination, civil liberties and student exchange. Generally, ISL has acted only when under strong pressure, has been unenthusiastic about anything but procedure. The wire cage in the Reynolds Club basement, while making used books available at a slightly more convenient place has been extolled by ISL beyond all proportion to its actual value.

Handbook Partisan

Even the Student Handbook, a traditional publication of SG, has been used for political purposes and personal publicity for the President of SG. (One would think that SG’s annual list of discount stores would be non-partisan, but

that too includes a picture of Mr. Gray, and a page of comments by him.)

Instead of co-op housing ISL proposed to rent two floors of a nearby hotel. SRPers felt that this was not of very great benefit to students. The plan failed for lack of potential residents.

While a minority SRP continued its program on campus with a number of meetings, lectures and cultural activities and active participation in Academic Freedom Week.

In the NSA election of last spring, SRP won a majority of seats on the delegation and over 50 per cent of the total vote. Running on a detailed and practical platform of “Four Freedoms for the Student,” SRP won the support of many independents who agreed with its platform. SRP delegates worked at NSA to carry out their program.

Forget Promises

The ISL delegation, after an interesting display of doubletalk, forgot their campaign statements and voted against a resolution endorsing exchange with Communist countries. ISLer Gray led the fight against the exchange proposal, while SRP-endorsed delegation chairman Dick Ward and all other SRP delegates supported the resolution, as they had pledged.

A concluding bit of very recent history: At this week’s SG meeting ISL Michigan Plan expert Stein, in response to SRP questioning, stated that the discriminatory fraternity on campus continues to have a discriminatory clause, despite recent publicity to the contrary, and will not stop discriminating unless its next convention, in two years, repasses the resolution repealing the clause.

At the same meeting ISL leaders seemed surprised when asked by SRPers if they had pursued a policy of accepting discriminatory advertisements in their publications. (At least one such ad was run.) They said that it had just never occurred to them to pursue a policy of requiring non-discrimination, that one just doesn’t ask businessmen questions like that.

SRP has in the past, and continues, to believe that one of the most important functions Student Government can serve is to help buildi a University community in which discrimination is unknown.

ISL SRP OK FECP Education BA Changes ^ p*®*J®f™ * * *

Entrance Requirements: AH entrance requirements or quotes based on religion, race, or national origin shall be abolished. Questions on application blanks which pertain to race, religion, or national origin will be removed and the requirement of a photograph on the application blank will be ended. ’

Student Housing: All forms of discrimination in housing, whether in dormitories or officially approved residences, shall be abolished.

In University-run residences, questions concerning race, religion, and national origin shall not appear on housing applications, nor shall photographs be requested.

For officially approved non University-run houses, such approval shall be granted by the school administration only if these housing units do not dism inate.

For all other housing which gets preferential treatment, e.g., listings or recommendations to students, faculty, or employees, such preferential treatment shall be given only to those which do not discriminate.

Faculty Hiring: The hiring of faculty shall be done on the basis of academic competence and without regard to race, religion,

or national origin.

Employment: University jobs, v’hether for students or nonstudents, shall be filled according to ability and need only, without notice of race, religion, or national origin.

For all other jobs which get preferential treatment, e.g., listings or recommendations to students, such preferential treatment shall be given only to those jobs which do not discriminate.

Campus Organizations: University recognition shall be accorded to only those campus groups that do not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, or national origin. Religious organizations who may require their memberships to accept certain basic religious tenets are excepted.

This Fair Educational Practices Code, drawn up by the campus chapter of NAACP and based on suggestions made at NSA, has been endorsed by the platform of both SRP and ISL.

: Voting Days at UC * t October 21st and October 22nd J 

Code Adopted Change Vote

An NAACP sponsored educational practices code has been incorporated into the platforms of both SRP and ISL for the coming campus elections.

The Fair Educational Practices Code has been endorsed by both major parties. The Code was formulated by a committee of the campus chapter of NAACP (National Association for the Advancement of Colored People), a non-partisan organization.

Included in the Code, which is based on suggestions made at the NSA convention, are articles against racial, religious, or national discrimination in student housing, employment, and entrance requirements. The exclusion of photographs from entrance requirements is caused by their use for discriminatory purposes.

Other articles cover faculty hiring, and campus organizations.

Students who do not have any more standard college comprehensives to take but are still classified as “undergraduates,” will vote for Student Government representatives only in the divisions in which they are taking most of their courses. This is in accordance with the election law as amended by SG’s summer executive council last week.

Clive Gray, president of SG, described the change as intended to maintain the unity of the college as that body of students registered in a unified general education program.

The amended law also provides for the election and rules committee of Student Government to survey the grade requirements of candidates in the forthcoming SG elections. This task was previously handled by the Administration. Under the new procedure the committee will receive a list of the letter grades received by each candidate from the Administration. There will be no indication as to what courses the grades correspond to. The committee will then determine the averages of the grades in order to establish whether or not a candidate meets the minimum grade requirement of a Straight “C.”

campus groups subsidized by the University will have a say in disbursing these funds. A new Student Government under ISL will again work to obtain for itself and other student groups a greater voice in the direction of student affairs by taking over certain functions now discharged by the Administration.

EDUCATIONAL POLICY. ISL will reactivate the Educational Survey Commission of 1951-52’s SG to discuss recent developments in University Educational policy, particularly with regard to the new joint degree programs. The Commission will formulate conclusions, publicize its findings and report them to appropriate faculty committees. The ESC will also tackle the question of athletic scholarships, in an effort to uncover the University’s exact policy in this matter.

NEIGHBORHOOD. ISL believes that Student Government should cooperate fully with the Southeast Chicago Commission and other community groups whose purpose is to halt blight and decay in this area of the city. ISL will alos expand the work of the Commission on the University Neighborhood, with special emphasis on research into the situation of student off-campus housing. ORIENTATION. Looking ahead to a year from now, ISL will make plans to maintain and expand the orientation activities undertaken by SG this year. For the first time, several events were arranged for entering divisional students by Student Government, including Chicago bus-tours, tours of the campus, and the very successful Divisional Night which gave divisional students the opportunity to meet faculty and administration representatives, as well as numerous student organizations. SG also co-sponsored Activities Night, printed and distributed the Student Handbook, and prepared a booklet listing neighborhood Student Discount stores for distribution at central registration. THE CHICAGO MAROON

October 15, 1954

Photo by Joe Wolf

Renaissance Exhibit

Varied, Didatic

Tending to be more of a didactic display than a representative exhibit of the usual sort, the collection currently showing in the Renaissance society in Goodspeed galleries features a variety of reproducing techniques.

However, with this purpose in mind, it is doubtful whether an average viewer unfamiliar with the techniques could get a

very clear picture of the methods of production or the expressive possibilities of the media. Although certain techniques were illustrated in great detail, such as lithograph and color-woodcut, in others techniques less familiar, notably serigraphing, the methods of production were scantily illustrated.

Furthermore, although flexibility in a technique is certainly desirable, it becomes invalid when it does what might have been achieved better by another method, and becomes mimicry of another medium. The exhibit contains a number of woodcut-like lithographs, silkscreen woodcuts, and tapestry-like silkscreens.

Judged on their own merits, the works vary in quality, but in general show a preoccupation with technique which does not always make up for a lack in enthusiasm and freshness of subject matter.

Students presenting their ID cords nt box office will be admitted for 50c any week night, Saturdays and Sundays until 5 p.ni.

Nordine Chills and Delights Audience

A hardy band of 400 people endured seven inches of rain last Saturday evening to see Ken Nordine, the well known television personality, give his program of readings at Mandel hall.

In this, the first of a series of readings to be sponsored by University Theatre, Nordine alternately chilled and delighted his audience with Poe’s “The Tell Tale Heart" and several witty monologues. These last, known as “word jazz,” were accompanied on the piano by Dick Marx, and consisted of mildly ribald episodes more suggestive of the night club entertainer than

the literary reader.

Dick Marx also appeared in a solo capacity with several presumably “cool” numbers and a well earned plug from Nordine for a north side night club at which ne is appearing.

In addition Nordine read several poems by T. S. Eliot, including “The Love Song of J. Al Ken Nordine interprets “The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock for captivated audience at Mandel Hall last Saturday evening.

The main exception was a color lithograph by Roozendaal entitled ‘’Dogs," a simple and forceful composition which seemed, however. to be more adapted to a woodcut.

Also of especial interest were “Roman Urchins,” an expressive although somewhat studied work by Federico Castellon, and “Negro Girl,” by Doebele.

All works in the exhibit, sponsored by the International Graphic Art society, are on sale, and may be viewed Monday through Friday from 9 a. m. to 5 p. m. and Saturday from 1 to 5 p. m. F. G. Ternenyi

T7)^

1369 E. 57th St.

Record

of the week

BELLINI'S NORMA WITH MARIA CALLAS NICOLA ROSS - LEMENI

Angel 3517C $17.85

fred Prufrock," and “The Ballad of the Long Legged Bait," by Dylan Thomas. Although familiar with the splendid readings given these poems by their authors, the reviewer was impressed by Nordine’s completely different but altogether satisfactory treatment of them. He brought countless unsuspected meanings to light, which is exactly what a good reader should do.

Toward the end of the program he read the monologue of a spiteful man by Dostoevsky and herein demonstrated his best talent — humor.

The defects of the program were largely mechanical. The

lighting technicians weje in a remarkably playful mood, and their endless changing of the size and color of the spotlights achieved little consistency with the mood Nordine was trying to create. After a number of rapid-fire shifts through the spectrum during a Marx solo, they hit upon a bilious green which they suffered to continue until the end of the number. This effectively squelched Marx’s frequent attempts to smile.

The height of their good humor was reached during the reading of “The Tell Tale Heart,” when they plunged the nearsighted Nordine into a purple gloom which forced him to the raise the hook nearly to his nose.

It is also regrettable that the program was not better planned. At the time of his greatest control of the audience Nordine would succumb either to modesty or laziness and say, “Well how about a little Dick Marx?” Unfor tunately the audience wanted a little more Nordine.

Students' Favorite

LAUNDROMAT

For the Past Six Years 1. Efficient Laundromat Service

2. Shirts - Flat Work All Laundry Services

3. Lowest Prices in

Hyde Park

Come In and See Our Newly Remodeled Store with the LATEST Equipment

UNIVERSITY LAUNDROMAT 1376 E. 55th St. PL 2-9097

Accustomed to a fifteen minute television show, Nordine a|>parently does not have confidence in his ability to sustain audience interest for a longer period of time. There appeared to be no justification for this belief.

Despite technical inconveniences. however, the show’ was well worth seeing. The richness of Nordine’s voice, his great ease and charm, and the variety of his expression were quite sufficient to overcome the doubts of his listeners on the value of literary reading.

Those who missed the show

Society Gives Concert

Works by Ralph Vaughan Williams, who lectured at Mandel hall last night, and three first Chicago performances will highlight the first program of the year of the UC Musical society tomorrow at Ida Noyes library.

One of the works, a sonata for clarinet and ’cello by Jerome

Your Bookstore Is Prepared to Advise You on Typewriter Problems PURCHASE REPAIR OVERHAUL RENTAL

All Work Quaranteed

UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO BOOKSTORE

5802 Ellis Avenue

ADVERTISEMENT

should certainly not fail to catch it when he reappears this Spring. Koger VV. Bowen

London Troupe Comes to City

The Russian-Hungarian dano ers, Nora Kovach and Istvan Rabovsky, who made a st^psational escape last year from behind the iron curtain, will appear with the London Festival ballet when it comes to the Chicago opera house for a week, opening October 25. They will be featured with Tamara Toumanova and Anton Dolin.

Rosen, is due to appear on a Columbia record. Also featured are compositions by Richard Swift, Milhaud and Prokofieff, for such varied instruments as violin, flute, clarinet, ’cello, piano and voice.

The program begins at S p m.; admission is free.

Playwrights Theatre Club

1205 N. Dearborn announces its fall season • • •

Held over

IBSEN'S exciting PEER GYNT Nightly thru Oct. 24 to be followed by Opening Tues., Oct 26 THE SEA GULL Chekov's pastoral tragicomedy SHAKUNTALA

Exotic East Indian Classic RICH BUT HAPPY Theodore Hoffman—a new satire TIME FOR LAUGHTER two plays by Sholom Aleichem □nd Wolf Mankowitz

Special Student rate Tues., thru Sat. (8:30)

Sun. (7:30) $1.50 - $1.00

Reservations Available at Student Government Ticket Agency or Call WHitehall 3-2272

 

| Noir Appearing |

I The Sy Nelson Trio |

| ★ Featuring I

HAL RUSSELL

| WIZARD OF THE VIBES f

f Saturday, Sunday, =

| Monday Evenings =

| KENWOOD BOWLING CLUB |

I 1361 E. 47th St. |

= ATIantic 5-9251 , J

 

You Can’t Buy It!

Numerous publications are available at your campus bookstore representing various student interests. We had hoped to be able to announce that The American Socialist, America’s newest radical publication was also available. We feel on the basis of our first nine months’ experience that there should be sufficient student interest in a realistic socialist magazine to warrant its sale on campus.

Unfortunately our attempts to have the American Socialist placed in your bookstore have met with repeated refusals, which evade a legitimate reason why the magazine should not be available to students who may wash to buy it.

While the University has found fit to subscribe to the American Socialist for its periodical room, and numerous students and faculty members are subscribers, the bookstore has used the excuses that they were not interested in carrying anothr socialist magazine, and that there is not enough interest in such a magazine.

Certainly no new magazine can create interest or become known and purchased if not available or displayed. We feel that the question is not one of student interest, for we are sure there is much potential interest if the proper trial effort is made. The real issue at stake here is whether the bookstore shall be the market-store for the free dissemination of ideas.

We’re sorry that the American Socialist isn’t available on campus. However, the question of whether our magazine, as a magazine of dissenting opinion will be made available to the student body is solely dependent on the actions of the students themselves.

THE AMERICAN SOCIALIST

Available at newsstand, 57th and Kenwood

6 months introductory subscription, $1.00 Single Copy 25c

American Socialist—863 Broadway, New York, N.Y. Joe's Friends Run

Kobin Hood Men

Here

Feel

Appleton'Field piano team present program in Mandel

The dt K>-pianist team of Vera Appleton and Michael Field

"Are Joe's friends running in Illinois?” was the subject of an open forum and discussion sponsored last Tuesday by Robin Hood’s Merrie Men.

The group felt that Senator Joseph Mc Carthy’s “friends” definitely are running in the Illinois election, and that “Mc Carthyism” is an important issue in 1he campaign. They specifically named Joseph T. Meek and Richard Vail as “Joe’s friends.”

The Merrie Men decided to friends in Illinois. This committee will do whatever it can to aid such organizations as the Independent Voters of Illinois, Students for Douglas, and Students for O’Hara.

Tn addition, the group felt that individuals should be encouraged to do everything they can to help in the program.

Students who Were on campus last year will recall the Merrie Men as the group which distributed green feathers to protest Mc Carthyism. They felt the Senator's influence was manifest in the alleged attempt of a member of the Indiana school board to

READERS “The Campus Drug Store” 61st and Ellis — Opposite B. J.

DRUGS — COSMKTI CS • We Feature Only Nationally Advertised Products)

Visit Our COLLEGE ROOM for Good Food

organize a committee of vol

*^**“****~ brand the story of Robin Hood "subversive’’ because it deals with stealing from the rich to give to the poor.

Suzanne Friedmann, secretary of Robin Hood's Merrie Men, said, "We feel that the Robin Hood organization can make an important contribution in the election campaign by bringing out the issue of Mc Carthyism."

Speaking at the meeting were representatives from various campus organizations. They included Dave Hartley, from Students for Douglas, Paul Breslow, of Students for O’Hara.

jnteers to defeat Mc Carthy’s

Masaryk Club Plans Concert

Of Czech Music

The Masaryk club at the University of Chicago has announced that it will present se- lections from Czech music on next Friday, at 8 p.m. in the home room of International house. The program will include: The Moldau—Smetana, Piano Quintet—Dvorak, Glagolic Mass — Janacek, and The introduction will be provided by Karel B. Jirak, well-known Czech composer and currently chairman of the theory department in the school of music at Roosevelt university.

The Masaryk club has been known in the past on campus for its music and cultural affairs. Admission is free and refreshments are to be served.

will present a program of Brahms, Stravinsky, Bartok, Talleferre, and Ravel next Friday, at 8:30 p.m. in Mandel hall.

Since Appleton and Field joined their talents in 1953 they have made ten coast-to-coast tours and over 600 performances in the United States and Canada.

Tickets for this single 

ante may be obtained for $1.5€^VC students will include Brahms* "Variations on a Theme of Haydn.” Stravinsky’s "Concerto por Duo Pianoforti Solis,” four pieces from Bartok’s "Mikrokosmos,” Talleferre’s “Jeux de Plein Air,” and Ravel’s "Feria.”

Play Town Hall

Appleton and Field are the only duo pianists to play three Town Hall concerts in three weeks. This New York performance, "Two Pianos through Four Centuries,” was recorded by the State department and rebroadcast throughout the world.

Some of the team’s other "firsts” include the world premiere of Bartok’s "Mikrokosmos,” the American premiere of Schumann’s "Andante and Variations for Two Pianos.” the first recording of Stravinsky's “Concerto for Two Solo Pianos,” and the discovery of a hitherto unknown work of Franz Liszt entitled “Variations de Concert.”

Lectures on Loss Of US Prestige

Appleton and Field’s concert for

SAVE TIME — SAVE MONEY

N & R Bonded Movers

— also —

New and Used Furniture

Ml 3-4196 1510 E. 55th

The College

LAUNDERETTE

f 1449 East 57th St.

MU 4 9236

Professor Hans J. Morganthau of the department of political science will deliver a lecture this Sunday afternoon, October 17, at 4:30 p.m. in the De Sales house, 5725 University avenue, on the subject, "The loss of US prestige in western Europe.”

Professor Morganthau is the author of such books as Scientific Man vs. Power Politics, In De. tense of the National Interest, and Politics Among Nations. This past summer he lectur ed in Spain. England.. France and Switzerland, and taught for one month at the Salzburg seminar on American studies.

f ONETIME M

Oft ANOTHER IVE t TRIED PRACTICALLY ALL OF THE CIGARETTE BRANDS. RESULT IS — IM A STEADY CAMEL SMOKER. I PREFER CAMELS' FINE RICH

FLAVOR-AND, BEL/EVE ME, THEY'RE GENUINELY . MILD. YOU TRY j A ’EM AND SEE /

and

how it started

Cedric Adams says: "When I was at the University of Minnesota, learning to be a reporter for the Daily. 1 lived on peanut butter sandwiches. It took me nine years to graduate (with time out to earn tuition! I When I married and went to work as a cub for the Star, I lived op love and mac aroni. 1 worked like a horse writing about everything on earth, befor e I made the grade as a columnist. Now I’m eating better — even better than a horse!”

START SMOKING CAMELS YOURSELF!

Make the 30-Day Camel Mildness Test. Smoke only Camels for 30 days — see for yourself why Camels' cool mildness and rich flavor agree with more people than any other cigarette!

SUCCESS

STORY: Carnets —

America’s most popular cigarette . ..by far!,

Famous Columnist and Commentator

M J. Beynoldi Tobacco Company* Wiw Um Salem# N. C.

AGREE WITH MORE PEOPLE

than any other cigarette! THE CHICAGO MAROON

October 15, 1954

Calendar of Events

Classified Ads

Ride from 6016 Indiana to campus and return if possible. Will pay. Call Ext. 1133.

Friday, October 15

Jebboth Service, 7 :45 pm. Oneg Shabbat, 8:30 p.m. Sukkoth celebration with readings by Stanfey Gevirtz, Hillel house.

Mass meeting For Representative O'Hara, Senator Douglas, and Mr. Lohman, 7:30 p.m.z Ida Noyes

French club meeting, three short films, 4 p.m, Ida Noyes library.

Open house, Hitchcock house, 7:30 p m. Dancing and refreshments.

Divisional Smokers, 7:30-10:30 p.m. Delta Upsilon, 5714 Woodlawn, and Phi Delta Theta, 5737 Woodlawn.

Film, All Quiet on the Western Front, 7:15 and 9:30 p.m. No single admissions, series tickets $1.50, Social Sciences 122. Sponsored by Documentary Film group.

Saturday, October 16

Folklore Society "Wing Ding/* 7:30 p m. Ida Noyes. Folk singing and election of officers.

Sunday, October 17

University religious service, Rockefeller Chapel, 11 a m. The Reverend Joseph Sittier, professor of systemic theology, Lutheran Theological Seminary.

Open house at Green hall, everyone invited for refreshments and tour of the house, 2-6 p.m.

Young Socialist League, business meeting, 3 p.m. Ida Noyes.

Calvert Club, lecture and emergency general meeting, 4:30 p.m., at De Sales house, 5735 University. Professor Hans Morgenthau of the department of political science will speak on "The Loss of U. S. Prestige in Western Europe."

Glee Club meeting, 17 Blaine hall Hall, 4:30-6 p.m. Everyone invited for group singing.

Channing Club, business meeting and supper, Fenn house, 5638 Woodlawn. Supper 50 cents.

Independent Students League caucus, Judson library, Burton Judson Court, 7:30 p.m.

Student Representative Party caucus, Ida Noyes, 7:30 p.m.

(a series of donee films*, International house, 3 p.m. Admission 45 cents.

Tuesday, October 19

Simhot Torah Service, 7:45 pm. followed by folk dancing and refreshments. Hillel house, 5715 Woodlawn. (No admission charge.)

Lecture: "Language and the Child" by Dr. Wepman, 8 p m., Judd 126, sponsored by UC Veterans Nursery School. Admission 50 cents.

UC Concert Band rehearsal and discussion of plans for year, 8 p.m., Sunny gym, 5823 Kenwood. Bring instruments.

Young Socialist League and Socialist Club, lecture and discussion, 8 p.m., Ida Noyes.

Outing Club open meeting, Ida Noyes, 8 p.m.

Wednesday, October 20

Camera Club meeting, Eckhart 202, 7:30 p.m.

English Country Dancing, Cloister Club, Ida Noyes, 8-10 p m. Bring rubber soled shoes. Instruction for beginners.

Thursday, October 21

Student Government Elections. Polls open from 9:30 to 7 p m.

Motion Picture: - Rain (American). International house, 8 pm. Admission 35 cents.

Friday, October 22

Student Government Elections. Polls open from 9:30 to 7 p m.

For Sale

Situations Wanted

Ride to Columbia, Missouri, weekend of October 30-31. Will share expense^ driving. Bob Hearlla, 745 B-J.

Argus C3 telephoto lens. New—took only a few shots. Cost $59.95. Price $40. Call HY 3-2142.

Philco turntable 33 1/3 RPM, $5. Base reflex cabinet 31" x 24" x 12", $15. Call Hendrickson, BU 8-9736.

Photographic Enlarger. Elwood 2l< x 3*4 condenser f4/5. Best offer. At bookstore photo department. Joe Wolf, ES 5-1615.

1951 Olds Super 88. Radio, heater. 4-door.

Call HY 3-6514 after 6 p. m.

% size violin, bow. and case. Reasonable. Phone Mrs. O’Farrell, ext. 1133. Evenings, CE 3-3920.

For Rent

Student or faculty. 4’2 furnished. 1716 E. 68th St. 1st floor. Mrs. Margolis, FA 4-8615.

Two males wish to share five-room apartment with student. $30 per month. Call NO 7-2624.

Services

Carmen's used furniture store. Moving and light hauling. 1127 E. 55th St. MU 4-9003.

Mathematics. Instruction to fit needs of individual or group. Soglin, ST 2-6727.

Need some typing done? Call Kathleen Kenagy, BO 8-2068.

Creative Portraiture. All other photography. ANYTHING photographed beautifully. Low cost. High quality. Joe Wolf, ES 5-1615.

22% discount on 22.000 items. New merchandise. See catalogs in Student Government office. Reynolds Club basement. MIRIAM’S SHOPPING SERVICE, HY 3-4970-1-2.

Piano for practice evenings. Can teach in exchange. G. Smith, Ext. 3131.

Found

Young lady, 22, high school graduate. Typing, key punching, fluent Spanish. Wants about 20 hrs. work weekdays betweed 4 p. m. and 1 a. m. Anything considered. Call HY 3-7827.

Transparent plastic raincoat exchanged in Mandel hall for brown one. Anyone finding himself In possession of a brown raincoat please contact Bill Thomasson. 733 B-J.

’55 models for men! Comfort tn every easy pick-up

all fine leathers!

*ilincti shoes lot ”*,

by Peters

every style . *15”

A college course May lead to a profess. Unless some cutie steps ahead And gets your confession...

FREE GALendars “make dates easy*Luscious full color GALendars for desk or wall. Yours Free at your neighborhood City Club dealer s, or write Peters Shoe Co . Dept CN-10. 1505 Washington Ave., St. Louis 8, Mo.

Classiest shoes for campus classmates... the smart, new City Club

Monday, October 18

Motion Picture: Dance Film Festival

CARMEN'S Used Furniture Store Typewriters and Desks Moving and Light Hauling 1127 E. 55th MU 4-9003

^ “SY

• Bankers approve o Ink can’t unit* or transfer

* Can’t leak

Fata* Traded

uwvif

UMM

hew "Silvered-Tip" writes ♦he way you do fine, medium or broad ..'. with, out changing points. Refills available in blue, red, green or black Ink. Get a Paper-Mate Pen todayl

Silvered-Tip refills... 49£

elf your bands rejoice in the pre* cise balance of a fine gun or the sweet response of a racing sloop then you owe yourself an hour with the Chevrolet Corvette.

You’ll find it is, quite literally, like no other car in the world—a heart-lifting blend of the true sports car with all that is best in American engineering.

There is the velvet smoothness of a Powerglide automatic transmission (but with the classic floor selector-lever).

The trouble-free durability of a Chevrolet “Blue-Flame” engine (but with three side draft carburetors to unleash its flashing 150 horsepower).

The ruggedness of an X-braced box girder frame (but with the astonishing impact resistance of a body).

Luxurious seating for driver and passenger in deep foam rubber (but cradled ia the traditional security of bucket seats).

Generous luggage room, the panoramio sweep of a deeply curved windshield, the flair of tomorrow’s styling (but within the polo-pony compactness of a real road car).

The Corvette blends all this and more. For it is a driver’s car ... a low-slung torpedo with a center of gravity only 18 inches above the concrete with outrigger rear springs that make it hold to the road like a stripe of paint.,. with a 16 to

Make a date to drive the

1 steering ratio that puts needle-threading accuracy at your finger tips.

Frankly, the Corvette is a “limited edition,” made only in small numbers. It is intended only for the man or woman to whom driving is not just transportation but an exhilarating adventure, a sparkling challenge to skill and judgment. If you are one of these, then you owe yourself an hour with a Chevrolet Corvette.

Call us now and let us set up a demonstration run for in a short 60 minutes you can discover that motoring has a whole new dimension of delight.

Chevrolei* Corvette

150-h.p. overhead-valve engine with three side draft carburetors • Four-leaf outrigger springs in rear • Powerglide automatic transmission • Center-Point steering, 16 to 1 ratio • Formfitting individual seats • Full instrumentation, with tachometer, oil pressure gauge, and ammeter^

YOUR CHEVROLET DEALER

 October 15, 1954

THE CHICAGO MAROON

Runners Romp Over Pier

Placing nine runners ahead of Navy Pier’s first, the UC cross country team rolled up a score of 15 to 50 while swamping the Pier Illini last Saturday in Washington park.

A somewhat bewildered Pier team got a look at the UC harriers a short time before the race and a short time afterwards, but at no time during the contest. The UC men broke on

SPORTS CALENDAR

Tomorrow: Cross Country Wheaton 11 a m. at Wheaton Soccer Purdue 2 p m. at Lafayette

* Midwest Conference Gome

top and never were headed.

Walt Deike led the field with a winning time of 16:26 for the three miles, closely followed by Paul Baptist, Lowell Hawkinson, and Tinkle Heyns in that order. Completing the rout, Jim Flynn, Sam Greenlee, Ted Fishman, Toulouse Otromundo, and John Smothers all crossed the finish line a full minute before the first pier runner hove into sight.

Although the performance set

BETZ JEWELRY

Unusual Jewelry Our Specialty

Expert Jewelry and Watch Repair N.S.A. Discount to Students

1 523 E. 53rd

PL 2-3038

new five- and seven-man team records for three miles, the banter over cigars and champagne back in the locker room was somewhat subdued. Tomorrow the harriers face a powerful Wheaton outfit led by NCAA two-mile champion and former Japanese’ Olympic runner Kikuo “Cookie” Moriya. The Wheaton team will be abetted by a treacherous course where bogs and potholes abound.

After the rains earlier this week the course should be especially swamplike. Nevertheless, the UC runners will invade Wheaton tomorrow come oppressive heat or high water. Parson Gil Dodds, Wheaton coach, is likely to provide a little of each.

Wheaton Beats UC Boaters

With Qoal in Final Minute

by Ralph Hirsch

Scoring in the last minute of play, Wheaton College's hooters edged out the UC soccer team Saturday, 2-1.

The Maroons, playing before a partisan crowd at Wheaton,

Pointing the way, one Chicago harrier guides another

Advertisement — Advertisement — Advertisement — Advertisement

STUDYING MADE SIMPLE

I have passed my thirty-fifth birthday, and my dewlaps droop and niy transmission needs oil. More and more my eyes turn inward, reminiscing, sifting the past, browsing lovingly among my souvenirs, for at my time of life memories are all a man has.

And most precious are the memories of college. It still makes my pulses quicken and my old glands leap to life just to think of it. Ah, I was something then! "Swifty” my friends used to call me, or "Rakehell” or or "Devil Take the Hindmost.” My phone was ringing all the time. "Come on, Devil-Take-the Hindmost,” a cohort would say, "let’s pile into the old convertible and live up a storm. I know a place that serves all-bran after hours.”

So it went—night after mad night, kicks upon kicks, sport that wrinkled care derides, laughter holding both his sides. "Come on, my companions would plead, "sing us another two hundred verses of Siveet Violets."

"No, my companions,” I would reply with a gentle but firm smile, "we must turn homeward, for the cock has long since crowed.”

" ’Twas not the cock,” they would answer, laughing merrily. " ’Twas Sam Leghorn doing his imitation of a chicken!”

And, sure enough, 'twas. Crazy, madcap Sam Leghorn. How I miss his gaiety and wit! I never tired of hearing his imitation of a chicken, nor he of giving it. I wonder what’s become of him. Last I heard he was working1 as a weathervane in Tacoma.

Oh, we were a wild and jolly gang in those days. There was Sam Leghorn with his poultry imitations. There was Mazda Watts who always wore a lampshade on her head. There was Freddie Como who stole a dean. There was Cap Queeg who always carried two steel marbles in his hand. There was Emily Hamp who gilded her house mother.

Yes, we were wild and jolly, and the wildest and jolliest was I But not right away. I blush to admit that in my freshman year I was dull, stodgy, and normal. I finally corrected this loathesome condition, but for a while it was touch and go. And, dear reader— especially dear freshman reader—be warned: it can happen to you.

The makers of Philip Morris have bought this space so I can bring you a message each week. There is no more important message I can give you than the following: College can be beautiful. Don’t louse it up with studying. . '

That was my mistake. At first, cowed by college, 1 studied so much that I turned into a dreary, blinking creature, subject to dry-mouth and fainting fits. For a year this dismal condition prevailed—but then I learned the real function of college. And what is that? I’ll tell you what: to prepare you to face the realities of the world. And what do you need to face the realities of the world? I’ll tell you what—poise, that’s what you need. And how do you get poise? I’ll ’ell you how: not by keeping your nose in a book, you* may be sure!

Relax! Live! Enjoy! That’s how you get poise. Of course you have* to study, but be poised about it. Don’t be like some clods who spend every single night buried in a book. Not only are they not learning poise; they are also eroding their eyeballs. The truly poised student knows better than to make the whole semester hideous with studying. He knows that the night before the exam is plenty of time to study.

Yes, I’ve heard that lots of people have condemned cramming. But have you heard who these people are? They are the electric light and power interests, that’s who! They want you to sit up late and study every night so you’ll use more electricity and enrich their bulging coffers. Don’t be a sucker! K

Clearly, cramming is the only sensible way to study. But beware! Even cramming can be overdone. Take it easy. On the night before your exam, eat a hearty dinner. Then get a date and go out and eat another hearty dinner. Then go park someplace and light up a Philip Morris. Enjoy the peaceful pleasure it offers. Don’t go home until you’re good and relaxed.

Once at home, relax. Do not, however, fall asleep. This is too relaxed. To insure wakefulness, choose a chair that is not too comfortable. For example, take a chair with nails pointing up through the seat—or a chair in which somebody is already sitting.

Place several packs of Philip Morris within easy reach. Good mild tobacco helps you to relax, and that’s what Philip Morris is— good mild tobacco. But Philip Morris is more than just good mild tobacco; it is also cigarette paper to keep the good mild tobacco from spilling all over the place.

Now you’ve got the uncomfortable chair and the Philip Morris. Now you need light. Use the lit end of your Philip Morris. *Do not enrich the electric power interests.

Read your textbook in a slow, poised manner. Do not underline. It reduces the re-sale value of your book. Always keep your books in prime re-sale condition; you never know when you’ll need getaway money.

As you read you will no doubt come across many things you don’t understand. But don’t panic. Relax. Play some records. Remove a callus. Go out and catch some night crawlers.

Relax. Be poised. Stay loose. And remember—if things really close m, you can always take up teaching.

©Max Shulman, 1954

This column is brought to you by the makers of PHILIP MORRIS < who think you would enjoy their cigarette.

across a bog, in a schema of the Wheaton cross country course where the Chicago team runs tomorrow.

went into an early lead when beautifully and tallied from Mike Hernans evened the scor quarter. His shot glanced off the goal post, out of goalkeeper Gerry Czamanske’s grasp.

For almost an hour the game surged back and forth, with neither team being able to score. In the last minute of play Wheaton’s Ron Loescher slammed a poorly cleared ball, sailing across the goal mouth, into the net at point-blank range to win the game for the Cruaders. It was a game in which only center-forwards scored.

Roojan Ninasaganian pivoted fifteen yards out. Wheaton’s e halfway through the second

Wheaton, as usual, was in top condition, and controlled the ball more frequently than Chicago. The UC defense had to work hard to rebuff Wheaton's threats, center-half Pete Rosen and goalie Czamanske standing out particularly. The Maroon line, spearheaded by John Godfrey at insideright, was most effective in the first half, but could not set up many scoring opportunities in the second.

Football

Hutchins Finds Football

Distracting and Immoral

“Chicago dropped football because the game hampered the University’s efforts to become the kind of institution it aspired to be, one devoted to education, research, and scholarship. Intercollegiate football has little to do with any of these

things and an institution that is to do well in them will have to concentrate upon them and rid itself of irrelevancies, no matter how attractive or profitable,” said Robert Maynard Hutchins in this week’s Sports Illustrated.

In an article called “College Football ’is an Infernal Nuisance,” former chancellor Hutchins stated his violent aversion to the distractions and immorality of the sport on the collegiate level. Decrying the fact that football has become a symbol of college life, Hutchins quotes the late Jeff Cravath* “The fact that the system reduces the boys to perjurers, scalpers, and football gigolos is ignored.”

He points out that a college president must know the corrupt practices that are being used to build his football squad, but if he tries to Slop them he runs afoul of prominent alumni on the board of trustees or board of regents, or just alumni with endowmentavailable money. The president needs that money to keep his school going.

Hutchins places his hope in professional football. He looks for a

Athletic Director Metcalf comments

J. Nelson Metcalf gave the following comments on the football question:

On Hutchins: “He refers to many admitted evils in some football situations. The fact remains that football is an excellent game and that playing it can he a valuable experience for boys physically qualified to play it, provided it is conducted on a proper basis. It should be used as part of the educational program, and not as a side show for public entertainment or financial return.”

On Grayson in the Daily News: “No comment.”

so far that people will not pay to see collegiate ball. “When professional football has reached this point, we shall be able to disentangle-sport and higher education,” he says.

“This,” he concludes, “happened

time when it will have progressed at Chicago.”

Sports Briefs

49ers Practice on Stagg Field

Evidently in accordance with Hutchin's idea of destroying big college football by advancing professional football teams, the San Francisco 49ers have been given the use of Stagg Field for practice sessions this week. Over thirty mighty graduates of college ball have been bruising each other there since Wednesday. On Sunday they will try to bruise the Chicago Bears, but not on Stagg. The game will be a regular professional contest.

WAA at Illinois Normal

Three members of the Women’s Athletic association journeyed to Illinois Normal last weekend for a meeting of the Illinois Athletic federation of college women. WAA president Elenie Kostopolus, vice president Trudy Martin, and volleyball manager Sandy Ford discussed and compared function of women’s athletics at member schools Chicago, Illinois, Concordia, Bradley, and Wheaton. WAA is open to any woman student who participates in at least one major sport.

Red Cross to Rescue

After all the rain earlier this week, the American Red Cross has sent out a release stating that registrations are still being accepted for Red Cross water safety and senior life saving classes which opened Tuesday at Ida Noyes pool, 1212 E. 59th. Men and women 16 years of age or over who can swim at least 100 yards are eligible to take the life saving course. The water safety instructor course is open to anyone 18 years of age or over who is able to pass Red Cross swimming and life saving tests. Only a nominal fee is charged.

Touchball Postponed

Also owing to the heavy rain, intramural touchball games in all leagues have been postponed until next week. IM tennis is underway in spite of the bogg weather, a winner to be determined in the coming week. Questions concerning intramurals should be addressed to IM director Kooman Boycheff, Bartlett 105.

Foothall Qood

For Nation:

Daily News

“For three months now there has been juicy talk in pubs and clubs of a football renaissance at the University of Chicago sadly we relate that all the talk is just that,” said Harry Grayson in the Chicago Daily News last Sunday.

Once again a wave of nostalgia for the old days of cheering stands and winning teams at Chicago has expressed itself. This time the Daily News recalled the “happier days when ‘Stagg feared Purdue’ ” and Walter Eckersall, Hugo Bezdek. and Jay Berwanger helped Saturday’s games become Sundays headlines.

The News quoted athletic director T. Nelson Melcalf as saying, “If and when the University of Chicago increases sufficiently in size, and includes enough men who can play football, Chicago may reinstate football at the college, not the university, level.”

Commented the News, “Metcalf's statement smacks of the ‘football is a dangerous game’ thinking, which so many of our eminent empty-heads have been loudly proclaiming for so long.” Former chancellor Hutchins would seem to fall into this category.

Even though the article called all-out pressure for football bad, it warned that “these are times for the strong only,” and concluded, "you would think college men could get together on middle ground and have everybody playing a game that is good for the nation.”

No direct reference to Hutchins or his theory of the relation between sport and higher education was made in the article.

SRP...

(from page 6) of an acoustical experiment than the effective voice of student opinion and a channel for student co-operation.

We realize that our program is ambitious. We believe that it can be brought into being when, and only when, there is a real involvement of the student body in the decision-making process of SG. Toward this end, we propose :

1. That SG make use of campus referenda, opinion polls, regular newsletters, and discussion groups.

2. A constitutional amendment to insure vacancy replacement policies which abide by the decision of the campus and prevent partisan packing.

3. A complete investigation and consideration of the structure and operations of SG directed toward the establishment of more democratic procedures.

We of SRP pledge our co-operation with all who join in supporting any of the goals outlined above, since only a Student Government which considers student problems as more important than any partisanship can make effective and worthwhile contributions to the welfare of us all. Page 12

THE CHICAGO MAROON

October 15, 1954

Tolerance Possible Only

With Truth, Love, Intellect

“Can tolerance be reconciled with enthusiasm for a cause?” was the fundamental problem which Jacques Maritain, French philosopher, discussed in a lecture at Mandel hall, Thursday, October 7.

He concluded that they are reconcilable if only truth, love, and the resources of the intellect are used by the defender of one view to gie justice to another. And as these three qualities are inherent in all great philosophical and religious ideas,

This was the first of two seminars by Maritain on the subject, “Tolerance; its meaning and practical implication.” In this first lecture, “Truth and tolerance,” he discussed three major topics: the general notion of tolerance, philosophical justice and tolerance, and co-operation between different religious faiths.

Skeptics Intolerant

He attacked the view that the only answer to intolerance is skepticism. The skeptic believes that anyone with convictions will automatically tend to impose them on others and thus make living together impossible. It follows that the only answer is the elimination of convictions.

“These people are the most intolerant of all. Skepticism is the intolerance of doubt,” said Maritain.

The skeptic misses the point that “in reality, it is through rational means—persuasion and not force—that man, the rational animal, forwards his views, and not through holy war. From this comes our belief that people have

Photo by Jakalskl

Jacques Maritain

the right to self-government.” A denial of man’s rational nature leads directly to tyranny such as Stalinism.

But there would be more than

the goal is certainly attainable, simply man’s rational nature to temper intolerance. “Truth must be purified by genuine love. He who places in hell those who disagree with him offends his own God.”

Maritain then dealt specifically with tolerance in philosophy and religion.

Systems Do Justice

He pointed out that there is a “central intuition in all great doctrines” which recognizes that it has a place in the universe of thought and that other doctrines also have a place in that universe. Thus each system, taken as a unity in itself, can do justice to other systems.

In theology, tolerance is reached through mutual love of God. This is possible since we are dealing with a fellowship of men and not of beliefs. It is a kind of forgiveness for the condition of men.

“Here the ‘judge not’ of the gospel applies with full force. We cannot judge the innermost heart —all we can do it trust in God. And this is just what love and tolerance would have us do.”

Faculty Softball Averts Loss;

Beats Student Team 7-9

In a thrilling struggle last Friday, the faculty softball team was narrowly beaten by an eight inning, 3-run hitting spree by the entering students team, 7-9 in 9 innings. ‘After jumping off to a 5-0 lead in the first inning, the faculty saw its lead slowly chipped away while the students settled down to allow only 2 more runs for the rest of the game.

In the absence of a star pitcher for the students, Neal Huffucker, a second year student pitched for the students, by agreement with the faculty. After a rocky first inning. Huffacker, replete with a tricky slow ball and red earmuffs, held back the faculty while the students went on to win.

Stuart Tave started for the faculty and confused the student hitters during most of the first half of the game. However, when the students began timing his pitches and hitting him well, he was replaced by Mark Ashin. faculty captain, who had been playing shortstop. The game was sparked by masterminding on both sides, including juggling of players and positions, and an intentional walk.

Play Two Games

The student team was organized and managed by George Athanson. who was also chief umpire. After the game. Reader’s Campus Drug store provided free cokes and pretzels to the participants.

The faculty team plays two

games every year, with the entering students in the fall, and the dormitory champs in the spring. It was organized four years ago and presently has a record of 3 won and 5 lost. A highly informal group with about six regular members, the team consists of University faculty and staff members.

Donald Meiklejohn, star thirdbaseman for the faculty, commented that perhaps this points out something about the new entering class. "They’re supposed to

UNIVERSITY BARBER SHOP

1453 E. 57th

Fine haircutting Two barbers working Floyd C. Arnold Proprietor

Student Employment

(from page 2) accepted for listing.

Lists Jobs

Clerical jobs are in most demand; among others listed by the service are hospital work, driving of trucks and cars, community center w'ork and library work.

“A student who comes to the University with skill in typing has a good chance to get a job,” said Mrs. Metcalf. “And one who can take stenogaphy has an even better chance.” A typing test is given to applicants, with a speed of 50 words per minute generally required for most jobs.

A student applicant for parttime work first fills out an application and is interviewed by Mrs. Metcalf, who informs him of available jobs which seem suited to his particular abilities.

Service Provided

Baby sitting openings are listed by the office as a special service to interested students, who must register and be interviewed in order to be eligible to secure listings.

“There are as many and as varied jobs as you would find outside of school,” commented Mrs. Metcalf. Among the most unusual she cited were the students who worked for CBS during the presidential campaigns and the person who modelled trusses for an othopedic association’s meeting.

Non-academic jobs on campus, on a full-time basis, are handled through the office by Miss Mary Farrelly. These openings include all service jobs on campus, with many hospital openings.

The general increasing unemployment trend has affected jobs available fo students at the University as well. “We’re having to intensify our efforts to find jobs,” said Bjorling, “and it’s a two-way proposition in that the number of jobs available is dependent on how well the students do.” Since there are fewer openings, it is also necessary to be more selective in recommending jobs to students, he pointed out.

I wonder what the vintner buys, one half so precious/*

Jimmy’s

1172 E. 55th

THIS IS IT I

LM NOW KING SIZE

 OR REGULAR <

BOTH

•VE

Oiw

•iyi Viwi Wii

It’s the FILTER that Counts and L*M has the Best!

T &1\/T “ swee Pin S th® country ... a -LJ smash success, overnight! No cigarette ever went so far so fast, because no filter compares with L&M’s exclusive miracle tip for quality or effectiveness.

From La M you get much more flavor, much less nicotine... a light and mild

smoke. And you enjoy all this in king size or regular, both ac the same low price.

Our statement* of quality goes unchallenged. L&M is America’s highest quality and best filter tip cigarette,

Buy L&Ms—king size or regular—they’re just what the doctor ordered.

UM-AMERICA’S HIGHEST QUALITY FILTER CIGARETTE

•i Mcnrr * Mnaa Tomoo Co-