Dean

by David Schlessinger

Loomer quits

Bernard M. Loomer, associate professor of the Federated Theological Faculty, has resigned his positions as Acting Dean of the Federated Theological Faculty and Dean of the Divinity School. Loomer's resignation was effective as of last Monday. He remains an associate professor but has been replaced as Acting Dean of the Faculty by Seward Hiltner. Hiltner is also an associate professor of the Federated Theological Faculty. As yet, there has been no decision on the choice of a new dean of the Divinity School.

Loomer said, in substance, that the, reason for his resignation was his decision about three weeks ago that, as Dean, he could no

longer act in good faith and continue to act constructively. During his service since 1945 as Dean of the Divinity School, Loomer has

been active in a reorganization of the Theological Faculty into seven instead of four fields of specialization, in the formulation of the Articles of Federation of the Theological Faculty, and in the establishment of a community of social and intellectual interest within the members of the Faculty.

In an interview, Hiltner empha University of Chicago, January 29, 1954

Court rules on SRP case finds guilty, on probation

The sentence in the Student Government vs. the Student Representative Party case, as announced by the Student-Faculty Administration Court on Jan. 28, is probation for SRP through the end of the current quarter. No probationary conditions were imposed by the court and none of the justices was available for comment at the time of the release.

In order to follow the intent of the regulations of the Student Code, the court decided that the C-Shop is not a legal place for petitioning, but that the basement and the lounges

of the Reynolds Club are. “If the ban on the circulation in the C-Shop is wrong in policy, it is up to the assembly, and not for us, to change it,” reported the court.

SRP was indicted by SG on December 8 on the following counts: 1) circulating book co-op pledges in the C-Shop, the basement of the Reynolds Club, and in front of the Reynolds Club desk; 2) for circulating book co-op pledges without the name of the sponsoring organization on the petitions; 3) placing the “SRP Newsletter” in the mail boxes of Beecher Hall,

and 4) circulating the “SRP Newsletter’’ in Hitchcock Hall without the approval of the House Council.

The court ruled that SRP was technically guilty on all four counts except for the inclusion of the Reynolds Club basement in the first count. The court report read “Circulation of pledges in the basement of the Reynolds Club was not forbidden by the code and this part of the indictment is invalid and dismissed.”

In connection with point two, SRP maintains that the only omission was in neglecting to proofread the petitions. The name of the sponsoring organization was added to the petitions as soon as the error was discovered. Accordingly, the court judged that there was no intent to conceal the source of the document circulated. Reading from the report, “Concealment is the crux of the violation, and absence of such intent

Report on USSR Scheduled for Thurs.

Next Thursday afternoon the MAROON will sponsor a report on | the USSR to be given by Richard E. Ward. 7

The exact time and place of Hie meeting, which will be open free to all members of the University, will be announced on posters early next week.

Ward stated that he will answer questions and will limit his talk to provide • greater opportunity for questioning.

sized that “Although my position is an acting deanship, and an acting dean must be cautious, I told the faculty that I would not consider taking the job unless I could do what I felt had to be done. After all, an Acting Dean who cannot promote deserving faculty members or make necessary appointments is really an ‘acting’ dean who does not act.”

Hiltner emphasized his appointis, in this instance, an important factor in mitigation.”

The court stated that the regulation covering the third count was difficult to interpret because of certain ambiguity. It construed the purpose of the regulation to prevent interference with the regular mail and concluded that the defendant’s action did not do this in effect. However, the court maintained that SRP did not comply with the remainder of the regulation which provides that material may be placed “only in designated locations in each hall,”

Ward back from USSR

by Allen longer

* "Russian educators would have little sympathy for the educational theories of Robert Maynard Hutchins/' said Richard E. Ward, MAROON managing editor, who this week returned to Chicago from a three week tour of Russia.

"Russian students are encouraged to choose their occupations at an early age. They begin their engineering and medical studies 

early as the age of 17. The vast majority of students'attend technical institutes (engineering schools). During the latter years of their stay in college considerable time is spent in onthe-job training.”

From what Ward could observe most higher education was aimed at occupational training. Students to whom Ward explained UC’s Callege could not understand the reason for a program that did not prepare students for specific vocation.

Left NY on Chrittmos

Ward left with a group of six other college editors from New York on December 25. They flew to Helsinki via London and landed in Moscow three days later.

After a five day visit in Mos- .

cow, the College editors began a *n the Great Palace of the Krem lin at a party sponsored by the

two week tour of western USSR. Ward went first to lenigrad, then to Minsk in Byellorussian SSR, Kiev and Kharkov in the Ukraine, and Tblisis (Tiflis) in Georgian SSR.

The editors had split into two

groups after leaving Moscow. The

ment as only temporary. “I am Acting Dean for only eight months (until October 1); that is, mine is an interim appointment,” he said. “I hope,” he continued, “that my permanent position until retirement will be that of professor.”

When asked about his general plans, Hiltner replied that he “plans to continue the basic programs which have been estabsince they did not obtain directions from the house government.

SRP was ruled guilty on point four and did not obtain mitigation on the basis that they received permission from Carl Grip, the head of the Dormitory House System. On this the court states, “regretably we must conclude that these gentlemen, though no doubt acting in good faith have not acquainted themselves with the governing documents ... in no way can we condone defendant organization’s failure to read and follow the law.”

other group first went south to Baku on the Caspian Sea. They also visited Tblisi, Kharkov, Odessa, and Kiev. The two groups met in Moscow where they spent their last two days in the USSR.

Visited many schools

Ward stated that during his stay in the Soviet Union he visited three Uuniversities, three technical institutes, an art institute, and a middle school. The latter, Ward explained, is a ten-year school which gives an approximate equivalent of. the American primary and secondary education.

Other visits which Ward found interesting, were to a Kolkhoz (collective farm) in near Kharkov and to several factories. The editors were invited to a New Year's eve party at Moscow University. They spent the following evening

Central Committee of the Komsomol (Young Commuist League) and the Moscow trade unions.

Met Bohlen

While in Moscow the editors were given a luncheon by Ambassador and Mrs. Bohlen.

The group left Moscow on Janlished."

Much appreciation was expressed by Hiltner for the “really careful, sympathetic study of the problem by Chancellor (Lawrence A.) Kimpton. We can certainly feel convinced,” he said, “that Chancellor Kimpton is capably looking out for the interests of the school.”

Conflict rumored.

Loomer’s resignation brings into relief campus-wide rumors of tension between the Theological Faculty on one hand, and Chancellor Kimpton and sections of the

Midyear class begins studies

The College will welcome about 50 students tomorrow for the beginning of the midyear orientation program.

The students will be greeted by Robert M. Strozier, dean of students, John R Davey, dean of students in the College, and Student Orientation Board. The new students will also begin their placement tests tomorrow.

Davey said that the midyear group usually differs from the regular autumn entrant by having a higher proportion of high school graduates and other students whose education has been interrupted. About twenty per cent of this year’s group are expected to be entered as first and second year College students.

Special half - year accelerated College courses will be offered to the midyear entrants.

Clubs pick King

Bruce Collard is the new Inter Club King.

Collard won the title at the Inter-Club Ball last Saturday night. The dance was held at the Hotel Sherry.

The other entrants were Stan Fox, sponsored by Sigma Delta, Ted Richert (Sigma), Don Mc Vicker (Mortar Board), and Herb Taylor. Collard was sponsored by the Quadranglers.

uary 19 and flew to Berlin via Warsaw. They flew from Berlin to Frankfurt and travelled to Paris by train. While talking to some newsmen in Frankfurt Ward became separated from the rest of the group. He rejoined the party the next day in Paris.

Ward stated that this tour by Union.

Boar dof Trustees on the other. The real situation and true causes for Loomer’s resignation remain, however, unknown.

The position of Acting Dean which has changed handes is only a year old. It was created so that the four affiliates of the Federated Theological Seminary could have the advantage of “efficient, centralized academic operation.” Each of the four branches has retained separate endowment and jurisdiction.

One year added U-High program

U-High, which at present extends through the tenth grade, will add another year of study to its program next fall, stated Harald D. Dunkel, professor of education. It has not yet been decided whether the fourth year of high school will also be added when U-High has students who reach that grade.

The Board of Pre - Collegiate Education, which decided last week to extend the high school program, referred consideration of the specific changes to be made to a joint committee appointed by the policy committees of the College and the Laboratory School. This committee will soon begin to consider appropriate recommendations.

According to Dunkel, director of Pre-Collegiate Education on the Board, many parents take their children out of the Lab School after the eighth grade. This change, he declared, “will serve the community, satisfying a wish on the part of residents to have a four-year school.” In addition, the extension of U High is connected with the recent change in the College program.

Dunkel stated that this change will make the University’s Laboratory School program more useful as a laboratory, when it more closely resembles other schools. “Resemblance is not identity. When you get too far away from other school, it becomes very difficult for them to learn from you.”

the college editors has been received extensive newspaper coverage. It is very difficult for a short newspaper account to accurately reflect what we have said, he contined. Ward will begin a series in next week’s Maroon on his experiences in the Soviel Page 2

THE CHICAGO MAROON

Propose amendment to Student code

extending Michigan Plan deadline

An amendment to the student code was proposed by Eli Stein, chairman of the Committee on Recognized Student Organizations, Tuesday night in the Sudent Government meeting.

In accordance with this amendment any campus group that has a discriminatory clause In its constitution after October 1, 1954, may appeal to the Student Assembly for an extension of recognition until meeting between Dean Strozier November 1, 1954. After No- and CORSO (Committee on Recvember 1,1954, such organizations Ognjzed student Organization), at shall automatically lose recogni- wbjcb only three members of tion unless one of the following g ORSO were present. Since the conditions has been fulfilled: if vote of the members of CORSO, the local organization is a part of was one jn favor, one opposed, to a national organization, an amend- jbe proposed amendment and one ment striking the discriminatory abstention, Jerry Graff (ISL), clause must be passed by a neces- wbo opposed the measure, made sary majority in the national con- a minority report before the govvention before November 1, 1954, ernment.

or the local organization must re- Graff asserted that the plan as pudiate its clause publicly and of- passed in 1951 clearly states all licially at that time. If the neces- yie requirements for campus orsary majority is reached in 1954 ganizations, that the Dean of Stubut not in 1956 the local organi- dents never denied the legal right ration must repudiate its clause of SG (0 ac^ and did not veto the in the same fashion in 1956. Michigan Plan at the time it was In accordance with the code the passed.

proposed amendment will be Gro M present! arguments

voted on in two weeks and must Graff then proceeded to list the receive a two-thirds majority. following defects of the proposed Corso meet# amendment: 1. If the three-fourths

The amendment came out of a majority is not gained by Phi

New biopsychology course opened in Bi Sci division

A new research section devoted to the field of biopsychology

has been organized under the department of psychology. A study developed largely through experimentation on this campus, it deals with the general problem of relationship between the structure and function of the brain.

Programs have been set up for training in teaching and

extensive research leading to a doctorate in biopsychology. Emphasis is placed on foundational training in the natural and biological sciences, where students will spend one-third of their early graduate study in laboratory research. The entire program will require three years, with the remaining time spent in specialized instruction, reseach and advanced seminars.

The first year of graduate work for biopsychology students begins with courses in general psychology, and a course in statistical theory and techniques given by the department of psychology. In addition to a preliminary examination at the end of the first year, these students must take a second exam and submit a dissertation proposal to be presented to a seminar of staff and students. When the dissertation has been approved, research begun, and the divisional requirements satisfied, the students will become candidates for the biopsychology degree. Degrees are awarded after a

final oral exam.

The staff of the new section includes: Professors Garth Thomas, Eckhard Hess, Howard Hunt, William Neff, Austin Riesen, Heinrich Kluver, and Ward C. Halstead, chairman.

Halstead stated, “Biopsychology, through its’teaching and research programs, hopes to gain understanding of the oldest riddle in biology, the basic relations between brain functions and the human mind.”

 

|FOR SALE |

3 Limit quantity 16 MM £ / Motion Picture Film £

/ Kodachrome J

/ Super X /

{ Super XX ;

✓ Write Box 999 ✓

/ Maroon

 

furniture — wrought iron legs

lamps — gifts

radios — tv — appliances

JANUARY CLEARANCE SALE

Hermans

FACULTY AND 935 E 55th st.'

NSA DISCOUNTS Open thurs. til 9

Here’s the Answer To Your Laundry Problem 2-Hour Laundry Service 2-Day Shirt Service 2-Day Cleaning Service

Open every evening until 9 o'clock Sundays 9 'til 4

Hyde Park Self-Service Laundry

912 E. 55th

Denies Mc Carthy charges

Cites the first amendment

The man who told Senator Joseph Mc Carthy that his politics are none of the senator’s business addressed a crowd of 200 people in Judd 126 Tuesday night, under the sponsorship of the Student Representative Party. Harvey O’Connor, author and labor journalist, was joined on the platform by Professor Malcolm Sharp and Frank Kirk of SRP.

Delta Theta in 1954, what guarantee does the student body have that the administration will uphold this agreement if it will not enforce the Michigan Plan at this time?

2. There will be a new Student Government in power in 1954.

All campus organizations with discriminatory clauses snould be required to repudiate these clauses by October 10, 1954, concluded Graff. He asserted that this proposal was much closer to the intent of the Michigan Plan as it now exists. Graff further stated that both parties ran on platforms promising to enforce the Michigan Plan this year, and it would be “far better to risk the anger of the Dean than to lose our own integrity. Having failed to get the Stein amendment (the original proposal calling for repudiation of the discriminatory clause by October, 1954, regardless of the outcome of the national convention) we have only one honorable course left — to take Phi Delta Theta to the Student Faculty Administration Court and suffer the consequences.”

O’Connor refused to answer questions of the senator from Wisconsin as to whether he was a member of the “communist conspiracy,” or the Communist party, citing the first amendment, and arguing that the committee was never authorized to inquire, into peoples political beliefs. He has been cited for contempt of Congress.

The reason cited for calling O’Connor by the committee is that his books were purchased for overseas libraries by the State Department, and that the royalties from the sale of these books were going into the coffers of the “communist conspiracy.” (Mc Carthy’s committee is investigating government spending.) O’Connor denied that he had ever received any royalties from the sale of these books to the state department, and attacked Mc Carthy’s rationale as being predicated on false assumptions, lies, and fabrications

O’Connor insisted that the time has come for American citizens to defend their rights against inquisitorial investigators. “I’m perfectly willing to discuss my opposition to communism with anyone who asks me in a friendly way, but they are none of Joe’s business,'' he stated.

O’Connor’s speech was preceded by Professor Sharp’s general discussion of the past and present status of the first amendment. He felt that the Supreme Court decision in the Dennis case made it clear that the first amendment no longer protects Communist activity, since the rather muddled "clear and present danger” doctrine has been extended on the basis that the party is part of an international conspiracy. Sharp felt that O’Connor’s case was clearly distinguished, however, and that in addition the question of the committee’s power and of the separation of the legislative from the judicial branches were solid legal grounds.

Frank Kirk, SRP civil liberties chairman, stated that his organization supported O'Connor in his stand.

O’Connor has authored several historical biographies.

THEY STARTED OUT EVEN AT GRADUATION:

You may not see it in their outward appearances — but there’s a big difference between these young men. One has held three jobs in the five years since graduation. He’s still looking for a job that offers him a lifetime career, lite other has been with a Bell Telephone Company during that time. He’s on his way up!

Seventy-five per cent of college men hired by the Bell Companies since World War II are still with these telephone companies after five years! Here’s why:

Telephone Work Is Interesting — You may train to supervise forces engaged in constructing, installing or maintaining telephone facilities; or to manage groups of people handling customer contact, accounting or statistical work. You may work on engineering problems or be engaged in planning or other important staff activities, such as personnel relations, public relations, or revenue studies.

You Grow with a Growing Business —The Bell System is one of the fastest growing businesses in the world. Since the end of World War II, it has spent about nine billion dollars for new construction. The past five years have seen the introduction of network TV transmission, dialing of Long Distance calls and the development of the remarkable transistor. And the next fixe years will bring many more changes. In addition, each year the number of college people hired is related to estimates of the number of future management positions to be available.

No matter what your military status, it’s worth inquiring about Bell System employment opportunities. Your Placement Officer has the details. See him soon. And be sure to talk to our employment representatives when they visit the campus. The time to plan your future is now! January 29, 1954

THE CHICAGO MAROON

Pag# 3

No bathing suit for UC Queen; Wash Prom bids , I l theme of WUCB decorations to brighten campus 24-hr. marathon

Nelson, Institute Egyptologist, dies from cerebral hemorrhage

At a tea given in their honor in Ida Noyes Hall on February 1 at 3 o’clock, the beauty contestants for Miss UC title, will be reviewed in afternoon clothes by members of the faculty, including Robert Streeter, newly appointed Dean of the College, Freeman Schoolcraft, Director of the Arts and Crafts Studio in B-J, and Mc Crae Hazlitt. Assistant Director of

Admissions and Assistant Professor of English. A group of 15 semi - finalists will be selected and will appear before another committee composed of UC alumnae the following day in Ida Noyes Hall. Wearing evening gowns, the semi-finalists will be considered by Helen Wells, Women’s Editor of the Sun-Times, Richard Filbrick, reporter for the Tribune, Hal Block of television and radio, Emmet Deadman, author of Fabulous Chicago, and Edith Grimm of Carson Pirie Scott. The five finalists will compete in a campus-wide poll on February 8, and the winner will be crowned Miss UC at Wash Prom on February 20.

Among the many activities planned for Wash Prom week-end, extending from February 19-February 21, will be a contest for the best decorative display. All organ Wanted! dateless girls

Girls yet without dates far the Wash Prom are invited to attend a party tonight in Hitchcock Hall Recreational Room at 8 p.m.

The event, sponsored by Hitchcock Hall, divisional men's dormitory, will consist of social and square dancing. Refreshments will also be served.

The^party is being held in order to give Hitchcock men the opportunity of meeting campus women whom they might want to take to the Prom.

izations desiring to enter the contest are invited to do so. Entries are to be exhibited on the lawns surrounding the dormitories or fraternity houses of are to be placed in some location on campus.

Campus radio station WUCB will present its third annual 24hour marathon broadcast tonight at 8 o’clock. The event, presented this year in cooperation with Student Union, will be the kickoff event in the sale of bids to Wash Prom.

Emanating from the Burton Lounge of the Burton-Judson Courts, the “Promathon” will fea The broadcast will be keynoted by Station Manager John Lyon and Student Union President Bruce Larkin at 8 o’clock.

The highlight events of the Promaton will include:

9:00 Selections by the Concert Band.

9:45 A selected group of short works by Bach and Brahms performed by the Shimer College Choir.

10:00 Interview with Chancellor Lawrence A. Kimpton.

10:30 The Shimer College Choir performs selected short works by Brahms.

Harold H. Nelson, 75, Egyptologist of the Oriental Institute and authority on organization of Egyptian temples, died Sunday of a cerebral hemorrhage at Billings. Nelson had been sick for the week previous to his death.

A graduate of UC, Nelson received his bachelor’s degree in 1901 and his doctorate in philosophy in 1913. Nelson organized and was field director of the Oriental Institute epigraphic and architectural

survey in Luxor, Egypt for 22 years. The survey, organized in 1924, is now the only American expedition to Egypt.

Nelson headed the University study of the ancient temples which the Pharos built for their gods at Medinet, Habu and Karnak until his retirement in 1946. After World War II, Nelson, then professor emeritus, returned to the Luxor site for four more seasons. Before his appointment to the Institute staff, Nelson served as professor of history at the American University in Beirut.

Author and co-author of 12 books on Egypt, Nelson was responsible for six volumes of copyings of the Egyptian temples. He was presented with a chevalier of the order of Leopold by the Belgian government, was named a “Notable” of Egypt, and elected a corresponding member of the German Archeological Institute.

Matron leaves dorm —fire hazard present

Quiz to give students chance for winning money, watches

A UC student team will take part in the National Broadcasting Company’s radio quiz program, the College Quizbowl. The Student Government and Dean Strozier’s office were invited last week to make arrangements for selecting a four-man team to broadcast on February 25.

The popular quiz program runs in the form of a competition between two universities or colleges; each school, broadcasting over telephone wires strung between its campus and the radio station, tries to be the first to answer a “toss-up” question. If one team is successful, it is awarded a number of “bonus” questions which it may answer without competition from the other team. The high scoring team during the halfhour program is then named winner, and the school it is representing receives $500 from NBC, to be spent on the extracurriculum as the students and administration determine. The winning team continues on the program from week to week until it is defeated.

Candidates may be in either the college or the divisions, but may not yet have a degree, including the UC BA. The questions involve largely knowledge of facts in the fields of history, literature, geography, music, art, sports, and so on. Interested students should submit their names to the Student Activities Office, Reynolds Club, before the weekend.

ry Zr? ^mutn

I

PHOTOGRAPHERS

MIDWAY 3-4433

1171 EAST 55th STREET

Chicago Symphony Orchestra Full Hour Concert Every Wednesday at 7:30 P.M. on TV at UT

UNIVERSITY TAP & LIQUORS

113 3 E. 55th Phone Midway 3-05 24

Weather Bad? Curl Up With A Good Book

CONQUEST OF EVEREST by Sir John Hunt $6.00

The story of the conquest of the world's greatest mountain, by the leader of the British expedition.

AMBASSADOR'S REPORT by Chester Bowles. . $4.00

One of the most informative books available on the Far East.

11:30 The premiere radio performance of the “America Was Promises” cantata with words by Archibald Mac Leish and music by Frank Pooler; performed by the Shimer College Choir.

12:00 Songs by Tom Lehrer. 12:30 Hutchin’s Farewell Address.

1:00 Karelia Suite by Sibelius.

Music of all types will be broadcast through the morning and early afternoon.

4:00 p.m. (Saturday) The University Glee Club.

7:00 Space Warp III,

Discuss socialist youth movement

The Politics Club has scheduled discussion of the forthcoming socialist youth convention in New York for its first meeting of the winter quarter on Wednesday at 8 p.m. in Ida Noyes. The convention, to take place the weekend of February 12, has been called by the Young People’s Socialist Party, formerly known as the youth section of the Socialist Party, and the Socialist Youth League.

Informal dress at Ida Noyes party

“Strictly Comfortable,” an informal party at Ida Noyes Hall from 7 to 10 p.m. will provide an opportunity for divisional and college students to talk and hear Mrs. Wax of the College social sciences staff play her guitar.

A new Victor radio-phonograph will be giv^n as a door prize to some girl attending the gathering. There will be no admission charge. Casual dress, even blue jeans, will be acceptable.

For the first time in several years Hitchcock-Snell hall is without a night matron. Since last Monday residents in these quarters have been using newly issued keys for the front door. The change is a result of the administration’s recent efforts to cut down on non-academic expenses as much as possible.

The night matron, who answered the phone, took messages

for the residents, and opened the door to residents after 11 p.m., was also very important in the case of a fire in the building. This last point was stressed by Larry Draper, president of the Hitchcock Snell house council. Speaking for the council he said that under these new conditions the fire alarm system was deplorable. For example, he stated, if a resident were to discover a fire in one of the rooms he would first have to ring the hand alarm bell, one of which is located on each floor, then he would have to rush dqwn-stairs to the desk where the control board for the buzzer system is located, ring all of the buzzers to wake the other residents, phone the fire department, then rush back to the room and attempt to control the fire. Before the change, the operation was relatively simple. He would ring the hand alarm, call the matron; who would notify the fire department and ring the buzzers; and then have time to wake those near-by. Draper continued by saying that the lack of a matron would also make’it easier for nonresidents to enter and rob any rooms which happened to be open. “With so many people owning keys to the door,” he said, “it’s very likely that it will be left open sometimes.”

Rugs lifted

Draper also stated that “changing the facilities after the contracts had been signed, though not a breach of contract, was certainly a breach of faith.” He was also afraid that this might be part of a trend. He cited the removal

of room rugs without notice as being more evidence of a possible trend.

The trouble arises from the administration’s recent, and apparently stringent, attempts to balance the University’s budget. Hitchcock-Snell’s budget was returned to the Resident Hall’s business council by the administration three times, until the night matron service was dropped to meet the budget demands.

Grip not worried

Mr. Carl Grip, director of university house system, though not responsible for the change, thought it would not be detrimental to the house, and wondered that it had not been done sooner. “The residents are mature enough,” he said, “and I don’t think it will create any problem.”

Grip did admit the fire system would need careful investigation, but he also said that the chances of robbery occuring were no better than in any other residence. Cut necessary

Miss Mc Carn, assistant dean of students, said that the Administration Budget Commission required the reduction, and had advised the Residence Hall Council on what to do to cut expenses. She said she thought the house would be able to function without a night matron. She had no comment on the fire alarm system.

Show Persian art

An exhibition of Persian art will be presented at International House this Sunday in the assem THE GREAT IRON SHIP by James Dugan $3.50 The incredible saga of the largest iron ship ever afloat.

SECOND TREE FROM THE CORNER by E. B. 

White at his best in stories, poems and essays from 20 years of writing.

TOMORROW by Philip 

One of this author's most exciting and effective novels.

SAYONARA: A JAPANESE ROMANCE by James 

A tense and compassionate novel of East and West.

UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO BOOKSTORE

5802 EHit Avenue Chicago 37, Illinois

I" * . ' ' ' ' J K •? , '> . ’ .

after the Wash Prom I Alexanders I

1137 East 63 rd Street

$;ssk i JTi OS: ®® i W®:\O™O:O;?S?^^

bly hall at 7:30 p.m. A post-doctorate student in Education, Reza Arasteh will introduce the program of Persian music and dancing. There will also be a movie about the development of Persian architecture, mosaics, ceramics, paintings, and choreography. The event is open to the whole campus.

Collector’s item

In February

Mademoiselle magazine is the first to publish

Dylan Thomas’

great play for voices,

Under Milk Wood

This extraordinary contribution to English literature is illustrated with exclusive pictures of Dylan Thomas at home in the village that inspired the play. Mr. Thomas has been called the modern Keats.

Mademoiselle on newsstands January 29

WHERE THE U of C MEETS TO EAT

Eye Examinations Visual Training

Dr. Kurt Rosenbaum

optometrist

1132 E. 55th Street

HYde Park 3-8372 Issued once weekly by the publisher. The Chicago Maroon, at the publication office, 5706 South University Avenue, Chicago 37, Illinois. Telephones: Editorial Office, Midway 3-0800, Ext. 1010; Business and Advertising Offices, Midway 3-0800, Ext. 1009. Distributed free of charge, and subscriptions by mail, $3 per year. Business Office hours: 1 to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday#

Arthur Brown editor-in-chief

News editors: Naomi Birnbaum, Allen Janger, Nellie Stoneman

News Feature editor: Barbara Vogelfanger

Feature editor: Daniel Queen

Sports editor: Poul A. Hoffman

Copy editor: Shirley Long

Advertising manager: Reva Brown

Production manager: Joanna Herlihy

Editorial staff: Robert Bloch, William Brandon, Paul Breslow, Joy Burbach, Lyn Burns, Allen Coleman, Sandra Epstein, Leslie Foster, Suzanne Friedman, Ralph B. Hirsch, Roberta Hopkins, Arlene Kramer, Bruce Larkin, Jon Majde, C. Roy Maisch, Robert Mc Cluskie, Spike Pinney, Merrill Rodin, Karl Rodman, David Schlessinger, Mitchell Slein, Judy Smith, Franz Snyder, George Stricker, Harry Whiteley, Neal Mermall.

Copy staff: Jerry Ex, Pam Brown

Photographers: Joe Wolf, Richard Kluckholn.

Letters Correspondence wanted

We of the Korean Intercollegiate Students’ Club, consisting of students of various colleges and universities in Seoul area, feel the honor to write this letter to you. We organized our club in Jan., 1953, for the following purposes; 1) To develop the intercollegiate relationships among the students in various schools. 2) To research and discuss about all studies and to raise and firm our knowledges, to behave ourselves as cultured men and women abreast worldly noted scholars and professors. 3) To reconstruct Korean Civilization and cultures compared to the leading countries and our individual culture.

All members are so much Interested in the student’s life in United States, especially in their club activity, that we have been inviting speakers who are mostly American civilians and officers, and to listen in their speech. If you are interested in some articles of Korean students’ life including our club in Seoul, send us suggestions of that articles. So, henceforth, we would like to exchange correspondence with you.

Speaking of general students situation, we think that reading is most important things to promote knowledges, but unfortunately there is no such adequate circumstance for us to read books. As most of students haven’t a textbook, we have to use mimeograph books and notes from class except a few students. The books in school library are mostly old edition, published in Japanese in fifteen years ago or more before that, but only small quantity of new editions. The text in English are used from the first year in college but are much too few. For the above reason, it is unable to satisfy passion of reading for many thousand students with the small quantity of books.

If your students would be able to contribute us some books, it will give us a great *power to establish a little library ourselves.

Dear Editor, I wish that you will communicate this letter to every students’ organization in your school.

Chong Suk Chun

Liberal Arts and Sciences College, Seoul Notional University, Seoul, Korea

WUCB SCHEDULE

Monday 7:30 Early News 7:35 10 Spot 7:45 Holland Calling 8:00 Behind the Footlights 9:00 Vox Parnassac 10:00 Late News Tuesday r 7:30 Early News 7:35 Music Mart 8:00 Americana 9:00 Folk Music 10:00 Late News

Wednesdoy

7:30 Early News

7:35 New Directions In Jazz

8:00 Twentieth Century Unlimited 10:00 Late News

Thursdoy

7:30 7:35 7:45 8:00 9:00 9:30

Friday 7:30 7:35 8:00 9:00 9:30 10:00

Early News 10 Spot Midway Mike Masterworks of Music Potpourri of Prose Late News

Early News To be announced World of Music Potpourri of Prose Masterworks of France Late News

*Fbulou* Terr/ie Hx Ut family w Urfwm Ml I Uowl" LOWELL THOMAS.

Ac Moa, Advu.ture^ Humor for tho Entire Family I

Matt Man tv run by U. S. Ski Trocpil

iruofk-fokiny Skiing

•A South Amufim

V ok ano Ui I

WINTER REVELS

JOHN JAY — Am.ric.'i World Famous Docu. mentary Photographer. Lecturer end Author personally presents hit greatest motion picture in gorgeous color eaualcade on £Ju&!

l O Ya on * H Making — >0,000 mb* •< a<MMufa an I CH*h M

Wednesday — February 8:o P.M.

Thorne Holl — Chicago the Lake

Admission: $1.50 (tax Sponsored by: American Hostels

incl.)

Youth

Richard E. Ward managing editor

Hits SG board

I wish to make clear to the campus as a whole my reasons for resigning from the Student Government student services control board, which was created, and rightly so from an efficiency point of view, at the first of this school year to “supervise the functioning of the book exchange, ticket agency, mimeograph service and all other projects which the government specifies.” Later the loan service was included. Jurisdiction was to be over hiring and firing, rates and salaries, “negotiation of purchase of equipment and supplies’’ and investigation of means of expansion. In other words, it was to be a quasi-judicial, commission -type of bureaucracy, coordinating administration of four minor services, none of which the majority of the campus has ever seen or heard of, I’ll wager. And since nothing is completely non-political, I was appointed as the sole member from the minority group in government, Student Representative Party.

Now I object for two reasons to the charter recently effected for the mimegraph service, which the board is forced to administer. It was negotiated with the director of student activities without the advice of or notice to the board, which presumably Is quite expert in such matters, and which has useful and relevant advice. The highhanded manner in which this was handled admits the possibility of neither controversy or of possible compromise of poistion. And, I sincerely believe as an individual, that this charter is an obvious and direct sell-out of the high principles for which a student needs program should stand: “the equipment of the Service is the property of the University, located on University property, and under the supervision of the Dean of Students Office,’’ but “the student service control board, an agent of the assembly (Student Government) shall operate the Service.” Thus we remain in the old situation of no one knowing how far his powers extend, complete nebulousness and nearly zero accomplishment. My outspoken opinion was that the student body should either attempt to start buying the mimeo machine immediately, or else rent or lease it on some firm, legal, contractual basis, it being a “student service*’ of SG. This was not done. If such a policy would not be agreeable to the present owner (and I’m not so sure it wouldn’t, if adequate assurances regarding repayment o fthe huge deficit the thing runs, could be made) then let him operate it. He owns the equipment and supervises the operation; how is this different from actual operation, except of course that students (Including Student Government) do the work?

Now this is of course an extremely insignificant aspect of the total studentsin-the-unlevrsity problem. But such a microcosm can be useful for determining total orientation, and it is certainly indicative in this case of a faulty approach: quashing of attempts at clarification.

Dave Hartley

Men of distinction troin here Jimmy’s

Semi-Formal Dance

International House

Friday, January 29

office hours 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.

Monday thru Friday

9:30 to 1

THERE IS NO CHARGE FOR THIS SERVICE

Free Refreshments

$1.25 per person

main office

HARRY A. ZISOOK

Real Estate 100 W. MONROE ST.

Serving Chicago since

& SONS

RAndo Mi 6-9250

1907

Editorial

Wh! Hither and Professors fired at Calif., Boston

“It is all right to be a conservative when the juice is dried up in you, but there is something wroiw with a young person today, especially in our rich and affiuent United States, who is not idealistically inspired to the point of belonging to a communis,t socialist, anarchist or similarly inspired group.”

Last fall the Daily Californian attributed that statement

to Harold Winkler, young assistant professor of political science (without tenure) at the University of California. The quotation was included in a routine report of an off-campus speech.

Early this month Winkler was notified that he was being released from the University faculty.

Winkler claims he is being dropped because of his political views. Chancellor Clark Kerr says the decision was made “on the basis of teaching, research, university and public service, and professional competence.” Peter Odegard, chairman of the political science department, calls Winkler “a very gifted teacher” and denounces a trend toward “thought control.”

Winkler also claims the Daily Californian misquoted his speech, and that what he really said was: “I can well understand how in the comparatively rich United States during/the decades of the 30’s and 40’s young people were idealistically motivated to join communist, socialist or anarchist groups. Conservatism, when the juice is dried up in one’s veins, is understandable, but there is something wrong with a youngster who is not motivated by generous compassion for the underprivileged of the world.”

Californian city editor Bob Trip, however, maintains the quotation was accurate and that he checked personally on the story with Winkler before printing it.

RECORDS

10" LP 79c

12" LP... 98c & $1.89 78 RPM....8 for $1.00 45 RPM ’/a price

Hermans

935 E. 55th St.

Open Thurs., Til 9

But, says Californian editor Georgia Wilcox, “the final decision on the quotation’s accuracy is relatively unimportant even if his position were entirely indefensible, he should be perfectly free to say what he wishes.”

Maurice N. Halperin was discharged from the faculty of Boston University last week after refusing to return from Mexico City to answer questions in the Harry Dexter White case.

Halperin, who headed the university’s l Atin • American department until his suspension last November, was discharged “for the good of Boston University.” He was censured last spring after he refused to testi See "Hither and Yon," page 5

THE UNIVERSITY COMMUNITY LIKES OUR DELICIOUS CHINESE FOOD!

KENWOOD INN (AIR CONDITIONED)

1366 East 55th Street

NO 7-9071 HYDE PARK THEATRE h'^/ARK

Student Rate 50c AU Performances

J. Arthur Rank's

“I Believe in You” with Celia Johnson and Cecil Parker

Celia Johnson of “Brief Encounter” gives her usual glowing, beguiling

performance. White Suit") of his usual Graustarkian

Cecil Parker ("Mr. Lord Soys No/' "The Man in the surprises with a moving, serious characterizations instead clown portrayal. Maurice Chevalier is captivating os a king who exercises his amorous feudal rights in whot we

rate the most hilarious, uninhibited, daring French farce we have ever shown.

HARRY A. ZISOOK & SONS

University District Renting Office

MAYFLOWER HOTEL 6125 KEWOOD AVENUE

Let- us help you

GET OUT OF THE ROOMING HOUSES AND SUBSTANDARD BUILDINGS IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD For the convenience and accomodation of the Students, Faculty and Employees of the University we have opened a University District Renting Offlct to serve you in obtaining better housing.

Come in ana let us know what your requirements are so that we may assist you.

AVAILABLE NOW AND/OR MARCH 1st

Hotel rooms with private bath and shower Sgl—$8 per wk.; dbl.—$12 per wk.

Furnished Ifa rm. apt.—$70 per mo

Hotel apts. with switchboard and maid service

1 rm. apt. at $90 per mo.

2 rm. apt. at $107.50 per mo.

LEGAL NOTICE Proposed Amendment to the Student Cod#

Resolved, That the added to the Student tion II, A, 8, e:

1. However, campus ated with national

following be

Code as Secgroups allillorganizations

that have discriminatory clauses in their national constitution after October 1, 1953, may appeal to the Student Assembly lor an extension of recognition until November 1, 1954.

2. After November 1, 1954, such organizations shall automatically lose recognition and shall be Ineligible to receive further automatic or official recognition, unless one of the following conditions has been fulfilled:

A. In the cast of a local organization whose national organization has adopted an amendment striking the discriminatory clause subject to ratification at one further convention of the organization, the local organization must file a statement to this efect with the Student Government and the Dean of Students’ office by November 1, 1954. If this aforesaid amendment to the national constitution is not finally ratified by the next meeting of the national organization, the local organization shall be entitled to receive recognition only undet condition B below.

B. In any case not covered by condition A above, it shall be necessary for the organization in question to file yearly public statements that the organization is not bound by any discriminatory clauses in its constitution, local and national. This condition shall be considered fulfilled only if In the period of October 10 through November 1 of each year the organization files with the Student Government and the Dean of Students* office the following statement:

“We, (name of organization), state publically and officially that we are not bound by any constitutional provision and structure, by-law, or agreement in any form to limit or prohibit membership in our organization on the basis of race, religion, color, or national origin.”

3. Failure to comply with at least one of the conditions A and B above by November 1 of each year after the passage of this bill, shall automatically result in loss of recognition for the organization in question, provided that when a statement is filed after the first national convention, as indicated in A above, that statement shall suffice until November 1 of the year in which the second convention occurred. This loss of recognition shall not necessitate action on the part of the Student Assembly, but shall be automatically enforced by the e Dan of Students’ office.

This proposed amendment was approved by the Dean’s office and recommended by the Committee on Recognized Student Organizations.

Established Since 1922

Mourice Chevalier

“A Royal Affair” January 29, 1954

THE CHICAGO MAROON

Page 5

Hither and Yon .

(from poge 4)

fy before the Jenner internal security committee, and suspended ancr the university received a letter from Attorney General Herbert Brownell saying Halperin had betrayed the government by “passing on information to an espionage courier” while he was a State department employee.

A 19-year-old pre law student at the University of Colorado who’s avocation is hunting Reds has been branded “intellectually dishonest” by the university board of publications.

The student, Dwight D. Murphey, charged “a Communist conspiracy on our campus” and, together with a state legislator, accused a political science professor of using pro-communist textbooks in his “Governments of Eastern Asia” class.

The story began when Murphey brought a 1,200-word press release to the Colorado Daily, which editor Rod Angove refused to print on the grounds that portions of it were libelous.

Murphey was not enrolled in the Asia course, nor had he read the textbooks. He based his charges solely on the fact that four of the authors studied in the course—Lawrence K. Rosinger, T. A. Bisson, Owen Lattimore, and Fairbank—have been accused of being Communists before Congresisonal committees.

Editor Angove termed Murphey a “troublemaker,” and the young anti-Communist appealed to the board of publications that he had been frozen out of the paper unjustly.

At the board meeting Murphey said he was not calling the professor a Communist, but merely insisting that he point out to his students that the authors of the texts are Communists. “But that would be a lie, Mr. Murphey,” admonished a sociology professor on the board. “You haven’t established that these authors are Communists.”

Another board member, the director of the college of journalism, asked if the authors were “convicted or accused” Communists. “Well,” Murphey replied,

• •

“these people are so slippery you can’t prove anything before a court of law. So other means must be taken.”

The board lauded Angove for his actions and labeled Murphey “irresponsible and intellectually dishonest.”

A month ago University of Toronto students — dressed in Ku KIux Klan robes and shouting “Joe’s our foe! Joe’s a shmoe!” — burned Sen. Joseph Mc Carthy in effigy.

Now more irate students at the University of British Columbia have undertaken another burning. They strung up, in effigy, Col. Robert Mc Cormick, publisher of the Chicago Tribune. Mc Cormick’s dummy was stuffed with copies of the Tribune and hung before being set ablaze.

The burning was a protest against the Tribune’s recent attacks on Lester B. Pearson, Canadian Minister of External Affairs.

Blue Cross Plan for UC faculty

Arrangements have been made with the Blue Cross plan for hospital care to admit faculty members and regular employes who had previously declined participation, or had not had the opportunity to participate, in the University payroll-deduction group. Present subscribers also may change their contracts from “single” to “family” contract by adding spouse or children under nineteen years of age.

Application cards and literature explaining the benefits of the comprehensive plan may be obtained from departmental offices. A representative of the plan will be in the Bursar’s office daily from 9 to 3 during this special enrollment period, Feb. 3 through 12, to answer questions and help fill out applications. For information by telephone, call Extension 3112.

Completed application and payroll deduction authorization cards must be received by the Blue Cross representative or the Comptroller’s Office not later than Feb. 12. Coverage will be effective April 1. ’

Gottschalk talk airs quandary

By Merrill Rodin

Professor Louis Gottschalk figuratively admitted an audience of 500 into the intimacy of an Augustinian type confessional. For his presidential address to the American Historical Association at its annual meeting last December 29, the University of Chicago historian chose to reflect upon a personal, though not unrepresentative, quandary which has perplexed him throughout his teaching career: what are the social obligations of a historian, and how, in the light of these obligations, should the historian be educated?

Clothing his remarks in autobiographical apparel, Gottschalk recounted the stages through which he passed in solving these dilemmas to his own satisfaction. Contemporary American society, he decided long ago, has little or no use for the conscientious historian’s preoccupation with the highly specialized problems of traditional research; “whether Lafayette found his liberal ideas in the atmosphere of 18th century France or in the American Revolution,” declared the author of the $1,000-prize book Lafayette Between the American Revolution and the French Revolution, “simply (does) not have general appeal” to “a society that is fearful of annihilation.”

Gottschalk, faced with the conclusion that perhaps liveliness of reconstruction and brilliance of style, were all that the public demanded of historians, recalled that such abstruse writers as Spengler and Toynbee had managed to attain a high, degree of popularity. Pondering this problem over the years, Gottschalk became more' convinced that “the social importance of history lies more in the way historians think on persistent problems than on either their subject matter or their style. On a priori grounds the world can be assumed to need the lessons of its experience And where can those lessons be found if not in the historical facts concerning men? And who can better discern and present the lessons they teach than a historian of a critical and philosophical bent?"

Although he was certain that America should justifiably demand from its historians the uniqueness of their insight, Gottschalk could not dispel his quandry without first discovering the constituents of this “historicalmindedness.” He began to envisage a logical synthesis which

might comprehend the oppositions between those who would interpret the past exclusively in its own terms and those who sought to interpret it in terms of the present, between those who insisted on the contingency of the historical process and those who embraced determinism, and between disinterested description and moral judgment of historical subjects. On this basis, he was able to come up with a 5-fold recipe for the socially responsible historian, stressing the ability to “attempt contrasts and comparisons of historical episodes, situations, and institutions in order to build stringent categories of man’s recurrent experiences,” and to “propose generalizations about

Openings for 3 5 in Minn, weflare

The Minnesota county welfare boards have openings for about thirty-five June college graduates. Applicants who pass the Minnesota Merit System examination, scheduled for March 6, and are selected will be given social work jobs or placed in a three month pre-employment course which consists of both class and supervised case work.

Most of the positions have a monthly starting salary of $276. A car is required for most of the jobs, becauseof their rural location; 7% cents per mile, car expense will be paid. Successful applicants who are placed in the training program will be paid $200 a month while in training.

Applications for the examinations should be submitted no later than Feb. 19. Inquiries should be addressed to G. Warren Peterson, Merit System Supervisor, 117 University Avenue, St. Paul, Minnesota.

human behavior that have universal validity.”

Fom these penultimate conclusions, Gottschalk finally formulated a practicable answer to his pedagogic query. Drawing upon his 27 years of teaching experience at the University of Chicago, he espoused a 3-level program for training prospective historians; elementary courses on events and the differing interpretations of events would occasion familiarity with “the data" of history, individual projects would emphasixe "the method" by stressing the mechanics off research, and the study of past historians would inculcate "the historical insight" by focusing on the persistent problems, tentative answers, philosophies of continuity and change, judgments of men ond institutions, and even the prophecies which great historians have permitted themselves.

Gottschalk finished his address by summing up the considerations which ultimately mitigated his recurrent perplexities. Only by “putting their minds to work upon the continuing problems of human existence” can historians discharge their social obligation to “pilot the course of humanity’s perpetual aspirations after the good, the true, and the beautiful.”

Bricker debate set

Professor Kenneth Sears of the Law School will oppose the proposed Bricker amendment in a debate on Friday, February 5 in Low North. The Law Students Club is sponsoring the debate, which will begin at 3:30. J. Brandt, a Chicago attorney, will take the affirmative position.

WHERE THE U of C MEETS TO EAT

:$::#$!:Sg^

How the starsgot started..

WILLIAM HOLDEN says: “My Dad, a chemist, wanted me to follow in the business. But I got the play-acting bug in school and college. I was in a small part at the Pasadena Playhouse when they picked me to test for ‘Golden Boy*. I never worked so hard in my life. But the success of the picture made it worth it!”

Start smoking Camels yourself! Make the 30-day

Camel Mildness Test. Smoke only Camels for 30 days — see for yourself why Camels’ cool mildness and rich flavor agree with more people than any other cigarette!

I'M FOR CAMELS! I'VE FOUND

THEY GIVE ME EVERYTHING I LIKE IN A CIGARETTE—GENUINE MILDNESS, REAL FLAVOR. YOU'LL

/^ LIKE CAMELS, TOO I /i J^i Uc T^^C 7 Star of “Forever Female”

flavor Camels asree with more PEOPLES" Page 6

THE CH ICAGO MAROON

January 2% 1954

Classified owck^ &w&ft& eaettte 6k ^tie^

Lost and Found

Lost: Black zipper looseleaf notebook Leave at Reynold’s Club desk or call Rav Nelson, NO 7-0882.

Lost: Gold wrist watch, •‘Tudor,” flexible wrist band, between Int House and Library. Reward. Edythe Keshner, Int House.

Found: Parakeet, Int House, Jan. 21.

Mature, blue. HY 3-4836, Mrs. Lewis.

For Rent

Sublet 5-rm. apartment new faculty building, fully furnished for period 3, 21 54 to 9/6/54. Call MU 4-4926,

Space for male sharing five-room apartment. Liberal weltanschanng, hi-fi. $25 month. 6347 Maryland, FA 4-0525.

Girl to share three-room apartment, including kitchen. $12. 5733 Dorchester (rear entrance). Fran Jacobs.

Large furnished apartment, suitable for 4 male students. Private entrance. HE 4-2046.

For Sole

Maple furniture, china, glass, etc. Leaving city. For information call weekdays, 9-4. CE 6-6372; evenings FA 4-8710.

Beige winter coat, beautiful swansdown fabric, beaver colalr, $18. New stylish grey suit-dress, size 11, $13 Epstein, Kellv 29.

1938 De Soto sedan, fair condition, $65.

1326 E. 5th, second floor, after 3:30.

Tuxedo, tails, white formal coat, 2 •hirts, size 36-38, 6 feet tall. RE 7-5453.

31. 78 Phonographs. Will sell or trade for slightly used Roman toga. Call Hall, FA 4-5278.

Guaranteed 1955 dated Ansco color 35mni reloads. $1.50; plus X B & W 75c. Box 101, MAROON,

Good pictures of you, cheap'.'.! Anv

•ther photography. High quality; fast: inexpensive. Joe Wolf, ES 5-1615.

Quality cocker spaniel puppies, AKC registered. Excellent companion dogs. Also some show prospects. Harvey, 3141-J.

Wanted

Woman, middle-aged, for part time light housework in exchange for room and meals. Two adults. MI 3-1379.

Friday, January 29

The Humboldt Club will meet in Wleboldt Commons 408 at 4:30 p.m. Mr. Metcalf will speak on "Du und Sie.” Refreshments. All students of Germany are invited to attend.

‘‘The Nineteenth Century: An Unknown Period of British History,” a lecture sponsored by the Humanities Division and History Department, will be delivered at 4:30 p.m. in Social Sciences 122 by George Kilson Clark. Fellow, Trinity College. Cambridge University. Hillel Fireside. The Sabbath Service at 7:45 p.m. will be followed with a discussion by Donald Meikeljohn, associate professor of philosophy, on "Religion and Social Policy” at 8:30 p.m. Hillel Foundation, 5715 Woodlawn.

Hitchcock Hall will hold a party with a “pioneer” theme in the Hitchcock recreation room at 8 p.m. Social and square dancing. Refreshments. All campus women Invited.

A University Concert presented by the UC Choir and members of the Chicago Symphony Orchestra, Richard Vlkstrom conducting, will take place in Rockefeller Chapel at 8:30 p.m. Admission $1.50.

Saturday, January 30

A Folk music concert, sponsored by SRP, will feature Pete Seeger and Big Bill Broonzy. Mandel Hall at 8:30 p.m. Admission $1.

Sunday, January 31

University Chapel Service in Rockefeller Chapel at 11 a.m. The Reverend John B. Thompson will preach on "Moral Inoculation.”

Carillon recital in Rockefeller Chapel at 4 p.m. by James R. Lawson, carillonneur.

University Glee Club rehearsal in Blaine 117 from 4:30 to 6 p.m. Sopranos and altos especially welcome.

Calvert Club. William V. Morgenstern, UC director of public relations will lead the conference on "My Faith and My Profession” at 4:30 p.m. Sunday evening supper will be served for 65

Pilot training begins at Lackland Air Force Base, where Aviation Cadets get 3 months of officer indoctrination.

cents at 6 p.m. De Sales House, 5735 University.

Monday, February 1

The Walgreen Foundation lecture series on "Business and Society” will be opened by Meyer Kestnbaum, president of Hart, Schaffner, and Marx, speaking on “The Characteristics of an Industrial Society.” Social Sciences 122 at 4:30 p.m. ,

Dance Film Festival in International House Assembly Hall at 8 p.m. Admission 50 cents.

Announcements may be placed in the Calendar by any recognized student organization. The announcements must be written on standard forms available in the MAROON office. All announcements must be turned in by 5 p.m. on Tuesday for events to be listed in the issue of the following Friday.

Tuesday, February 2

Inte-Varsity Christian Fellowship luncheon in Ida Noyes from 12:30 to 1:20 p.m. David Adeney, missionary secretary of IVCF will speak.

Wednesday, February 3

The Walgreen Foundation lecture series: “Business and Society” will continue with Meyer Kestnbaum speaking on

Portraits by

LOUISE BARKER

Photographer

1457 E. 57th St. BU 8-0876

“The Role of Business in the Modern World.” Social Sciences 122 at 4:30

Carillon recital in Rockefeller Chapel at 4:30 p.m. by James R. Lawson, carlllonneur University Glee Club rehearsal in Blaine 117 from 7 to 8:30 p.m. Sopranos and altos especially welcome.

Dr. Roy Whitman, associate professor of psychiatry, will discuss "Psychiatric Social Work in a Brief Therapy Program” in a lecture sponsored by the SSA Club. Ida Noyes East Lounge at 7:30 p.m.

UC Sailing Club meeting in Ida Noyes sun parlor at 7:30 p.m. Elections, racing plans.

UC Science Fiction club will meet in Ida Noyes Library at 7:30 p.m. to dissect five contemporary science fiction authors.

“Role of Asia in the Future" will be the topic for the International House discussion group at 8 p.m. in the East Lounge. Speakers are from India, Indonesia, Korea. Japan, Pakistan, Saudi, Arabia.

The Politics Club will discuss socialist youth prospectives in Ida Noyes at 8 p.m.

Thursday, February 4

The last lecture in the series "Personal Knowledge: The Realm of Unspoken Affirmation,” sponsored by the Com mittee on Social Thought, will be delivered by Michael Polanyi, F.R.S., professor of social studies at the University of Manchaster, in Social Sciences 122 at 4:30 p.m.

“State Fair,” a U. S. film, will be shown in International House East Lounge at 7 anw 9 p.m. Admission 35 cents.

Sailing Club shore school. Columbia Yacht Club at 7:30 p.m.

International Hon.se Movie Program

Monday, February 1 — DANCE FILM FESTIVAL (American) Assembly Hall, 8:00 P.M. Admission 50c.

Thursday, Feb. 4 — STATE FAIR (with Will Rogers) (American) East Lounge, 7:00 P.M. and 9:00 P.M. Admission 35c.

College Men! Fly with the Finest in the Air Force

QUALIFIED APPLICANTS WIN WINGS AS AIR FORCE LIEUTENANTS, EARN OVER $5,000 A YEAR!

Swimmers beat Bradley despite forfeit in diving

Maroon swimmers won handily over Bradley last Saturday, 52-31, even though they forfeited the diving event. Key men in the win were Bob Giedt with two victories, and Roy Porterfield, Howard Jenkin and Lance Felker with one apiece. Chicago also won both relays.

Coach Bill Moyle’s mermen try for another win today in Bartlett Pool, this time over Knox College.

Rifle Club tops Standard Oil

The UC Rifle and Pistol Club fired a rifle match against a team from Standard Oil of Whiting, Indiana, last Thursday and truumphed, 1296-1264. Roger Kelly was high shooter with 281 points.

Piano instructor for student with some knowledge; have own piano. FA 4-8200. Ext. 315.

Tenor bass for madrigals, phone MU 6432 or AB 4-3900. D. Kober.

Ride to Columbus Ohio, Feb. 5 or 6 Call MI 3-6596 evenings, Peter Pesch.

Ride to New York around Feb. 11 or back, Feb. 14. Call Meier, FA 4-7354.

Old opera records—golden age singers. Will pay good prices for collector’s items. Miller, MU 4-9825.

M.G. sports car, good condition. Paul Wenger. 5747 University. PL 2-9718.

Mathematics special instruction to fit your mathematical needs. Individual or group sessions at our Loop office or location of your choice. Soglin Associates, ST 2-6727.

Piano lessons at home. Barbara Hudgins. Oberlin graduate, 1948, experience. MU 4-1458. Evenings, weekends.

Alumna will do baby sitting 3-4 nights per week in exchange for room. Address c o MAROON.

Baby sitter, light housekeeper available whom we no longer need. Highest recommendations. Call NO 7-1238.

Portraits my specialty. Two 8xl0's, six 2x3's, $5.50. High quality, low rates. Quick service. Joe Wolf, ES 5-1615.

Tutoring, translations, etc. in German and Spanish. International House, Room 567.

Personals

Women desiring husbands may shop at Hitchcock’s “Frontier" Party tonight, 8 p.m. Hitchcock Hall. Informal dress.

Whoever took a yellow wallet from the SG meeting please return the ID card. S. Friedmann, 28 Kelly

^Disc

1367 5. 57th St.

•

THE RECORD OF THE WEEK

Songs of the

Lincoln Brigade

Songs of the International Brigade

10" LP $3.00

2 It’s a hard grind, but Cadets Q In primary training the Cadet flies his first planes, a Piper t also find time to relax. J, Cub, and this T-6. Later he will fly the more advanced T-28.

4 After flying conventional planes, he moves on to jets.., # going up with an instructor in this T-33 trainer.

How to qualify for Pilot Training as an Aviation Cadeti

To qualify, you must be at least a high school graduate. However, you will be of more value to the A ir Force if you stay in college, graduate, and then volunteer for training. In addition, you must be between the ages of 19 and 26 f^, and in top physical condition. If you think you are eligible, here's what you do: Take your high school diploma or certificate of graduation together with a copy of your birth certificate down to your nearest Air Force base or recruiting station. Fill out the application they give you. If you pass your physical and other tests, you will be scheduled for an Avia tion Cadet Training Class.

6 Then winds up his training with the latest and * fastest planes in the air.

5 He wins his wings as an Air Force officer, earning • over $5,000 a year.

• For a fast, exciting and rewarding career, make your future in the sky as an Air Force pilot. As a college student, you are now able to join that small, select band of young men who race the wind in Air Force jets. You’ll have the same opportunities to learn, advance and establish yourself in the growing new world of jet aviation.

fly o* one of the bnst

The pilot training you get in th# Air Force is the best in the world —the kind that makes jet aces. You’ll learn to fly the fastest,

latest planes in the air—and fly them safely and well. Those who look to the skies will look to you for leadership and confidence.

Into a brilliant future

You’ll graduate as an Air Force lieutenant, earning over $5,000 a year. Your Air Force wings will serve as credentials for important positions both in military and commercial aviation. Air Force wings mark you as the very best in the flying profession.

7 He’s tested those silver wings And won the respect and admiration that go to every jet pilot in the United States Air Force 1 From now on he’ll rule the skies in an Air Force jet.

WHERE TO GET MORE DETAILSt

Contact your nearest Aviation Cadet Selection Team, Air Force ROTC Unit, or Air Force Recruiting Officer. Or write to: Aviation Cadet, Headquarters, U. S. Air Force, Washington 25, D. C. January 29, 1954

THE CHICAGO MAROON

^9 1

Mandel concert to feature Seeger and Bill Broonzy

Saturday night’s folk concert in Mandel brings together two of the most interesting personalities in American Folk music. Pete Seeger’s long-necked five-string banjo playing has its roots in the mountains of Tennessee, and Big Bi U Broonzy’s blue guitar improvisations come from the city slums and southern chain gangs. Ticket sales for the concert have been brisk.

John and Alan Lomax, former directors of the Library of Congress folk music section describe Seeger as “The tall, thin Yankee, who can make a banjo weep like a willow and mourn like a dove one of America’s unique musicians.” It was the Lomaxes who, in the late nineteen-thirties, started Seeger on his career that has included performances in such diverse places as New York’s Washington Square and Chicago’s Pump Room. He has made records for Decca (with the Weavers) that sold millions, and records for small companies that sold perhaps a hundred. He has received top billing at leading night spots, and played for haircuts in barbershops. He has brought folk music to audiences totally unfamiliar with it.

Big Bill Broonzy was, in the words of his friend and tutor Huddie (Leadbelly) Ledbettor, “born with the blues.” The easy, rambling style that he first picked up in his youth in the slums of Little Rock, Ark., has now acquired polish through years of association with such artists as Jelly Roll Morton and Blind Lemon Jefferson. He has recorded thousands of sides, and is now under contract with Chess records. In the tradition of blues guitarists, his style is improvisational. He has a large following in Paris, and has made several tours of Europe.

Pete Seeger currently resides

near Beacon, N. Y., a community 50 miles up the Hudson from New York. He and his wife and children are building a house on a mountain there. In the summer, Pete’s folksinging friends come up to the mountain, camp in pup tents on the slope, and help with the building of the house, laying water pipe, and building a road (the road leading to his house is passable only by jeep). He plays at summer resorts and camps, and in “Hootenannies” at New York’s Pythian Temple, and makes records on the Stinson and Folkways labels.

Broonzy currently operates a bar at 36th and Cottage Grove Ave. in Chicago, where he plays with a three-piece blues combo. He appears at the Blue Angel with Studs Terkel and banjoist

Fleming Brown on Monday nights. He played in Mandel Hall two years ago in SU’s I Come for to Sing concert.

f Bill Broonzy

Panorama of Qerman art in Qoodspeed shows variety within woodcut medium

The pleasure of viewing the exhibition of 20th Century German Graphic Art now at the Renaissance Society Gallery comes, in great part, from one's realization of the particular receptiveness of the woodcut medium to expressionistic technique. Prints by the pre-World War I "Brucke" group reveal the impatience and excitement with which artists like Nolde, Kirchner, Schmidt-Rottluff, Pechstein, Heckel and Mueller

gouged and hacked their torments in the rugged wood. Held in check by the material they worked with and further restricted to the use of black and white, these artists found a medium with sufficient resistance to discipline and formalize their emotions. It is as if, in attacking the wood, they had attacked life itself and planted their expression upon it.

In four prints on exhibit at Nolde, the viewer becomes incorporated iiito the picture as he finds one character in each print staring him straight in the eye. Having thus involved and, perhaps, condemned his. viewer, the artist proceeds to evoke tensions and ironies by exploiting the most subtle potentialities of his technique. In “Family,” the roughness and

uncertainty of escape are implied by the jagged quality of the cut and the startling surfaces of black and white. “Reclining Nude” succeeds in its irony because of a contradiction between the peaceful attitude and the disturbing treatment.

Ernst Kirchner is another of the Brucke group to discover the unique possibilities of the woodcut. His “Cow Herder” never completely emerges from the rustic wood with which he blends to become one with his environment.

Though the woodcuts are the * outstanding feature of the exhibition, other print techniques — etching and lithograph — are also shown. The manner by which the prints have been sellected and arranged is very instructive, for we are allowed to follow the graphic arts in their

development from expressionism, through the more poetic work of Marc and Kandinsky, thence into the symbolism of Paul Klee (whose development is summarized in three prints moving from realistic allegory to his better-known imaginative interpretations of man); finally, we are shown some excellent examples of the “New Objectivity” that emerged in the period between the wars. This last group, including Grosz, Dix and Beckmann, is frankly proletarian and often becomes nothing more than political cartooning. One drypoint, however, “The Declaration of War” by Beckmann, raises light and shadow to a theological level. As light passes with seeming swiftness over a crowd, secret hopes and fears are suddenly exposed as

if in response to the presence of light or darkness.

The exhibition, though modest, makes a solid impression. One is always aware of the great tradigrown. There is an influence of folk art in the primitive bluntness of works like Nolde’s “Prophet” or Pechstein’s “South Sea Islanders,” a color lithograph; and the

It is satisfying to see how this old tradition was taken up and revitalized in Germany during a period when methods were being sought to express inward psychological turmoil. The exhibition which runs through February 6 is a reminder that the graphic arts have a more significant and original reason for being than simply as a means of mass production.

Pierre De Lt Hrt

Playwrights interpret Bert Brecht;

do 'Three Penny Opera' superbly

Bertold Brecht's satiric comedy with music, Three Penny Opera (Drei Groschen Oper), with music by Kurt Weill, is now playing at the Playrights Theatre Club, 1560 N. La Salle. It is scheduled to run Wednesdays through Sundays until February.

Three Penny Opera is adapted from Gay's Beggar's Opera and shares the fault of most Brecht. It suffers

from the limitations that the old plot (and in the cases of other Brecht plays — the remote settings) places upon the new (and contemporary) situations. These limitations — elusive indirect symbolism, vague broad characterizations, and indecisive plot development — only obscure the meaning of the play. But wharfs more important, these limitations make no one interpretation, including that which Brecht intended, the correct one (although some insight into the circumstances which led to the writing of the play might reveal the one closest to correct). For this reason, every interpretation is best considered in the light of its own consistency and reality; for when well interpreted and directed, a Brecht play becomes a valuable experience.

As interpreted by the Playwrights company — under the direction of Paul Sills, who did Brecht’s “Caucasian Chalk Circle” for University Theatre last year—“Three Penny Opera” is a plea for “mercy” toward those who suffer “the uncertainty of human circumstances.” It centers around British “lumpen” elements: a “small businessman” who makes use of the “labor” of beggars for his own ends and a clever criminal who exploits the endeavors of his criminal vassals to gain fame, comfort, a collection of wives, and the willing services of a group of prostitutes.

Between the two are a chief of

Estelle Lutrelle

police whose inconvenient bond of friendship with the criminal is ellucidated in an ironic song describing their comradeship in the colonial adventures of the British Army (bringing strikingly to mind current happenings in Kenya and South Africa), and the group of prostitutes who find their loyalty divided between pleasure and bribery. The story develops into a situation in which the “businessman” and his beggars in revolt stop the Queen’s coronation, and the criminal—betrayed— is condemned to hang. Then mercy is made to come in a totally absurd manner (which, with nuances of a better existence and digs at the prevailing order, suggests another interpretation) and thus all ends for the best — with reservations to reality.

Sills’ interpretation is well borne out in its application. He uses a bare but vividly painted set, simple but provocative costumes, and bright fairly static lighting, leaving the burden of interest to fall upon stage movement, of which there is much, and the music, which for the most part is surprisingly well

sung and played. Indeed the cast is provided with a vehicle for visual expression in the best Chaplin-Clair (and Follies Bergere) tradition. All elements of music, voice, and staging are combined into remarkably balanced and well timed comedy.

The cast works skillfully within the interpretation. Edward Asner, as the “businessman” fits well in Sills’ conception and develops more than the others, an image of an immediate contemporary type, as Brecht probably intended. In the principle role, the criminal, Eugene Troobnick does an excellent job of comedy while effectively developing the weakness of disposition of the character. Nevertheless, he sometimes draws too much attention to himself, thereby reducing the other actors to mechanical props.

Estelle Lutrelle, as one of the wives of the criminal, is able to portray joy with believability and sadness with effect, while not distracting from the total comedy. Yet, in her scenes with Barbara Harris, who plays the other wife, both she and Miss Harris become too immobile

Eugene Troobnick

and rely excessively on dialogue often inadequately timed.

The rest of the cast shows uniform excellence in carrying through the line of the play.

This production of “Three Penny Opera” presents a commmendable conception of the play. It is interpreted with a view toward comedy and its comedy is superb and biting.

Daniel Quea ^•9 8

THE CHICAGO MAROON

January 29, 1954

SPORTS EVENTS THIS WEEK

Today JV Track Tilden Tech H.S. 3:30 Fieldhouse Tomorrow Track Marquette & Central Mich. 2:00 Fieldhouse Ice Hockey Wheaton 8:00 North Stands Monday JV Luther Basketball South 3:30 Bartlett Gym Wednesday Fencing Illinois 4:00 Bartlett Gym Chgo. Ice Hockey Med. Schl. 8:00 North Stands Thursday Track Wilson Jr. and Morton Jr. 4:00 Fieldhouse

Teachers quash varsity in season's worst defeat

JV basketballers lead league; Alumni beaten

In their first contest away from the Field-House court this year the Maroon basketballers suffered their worst defeat of the season as Chicago Teachers College beat them, 97-65, Wednesday night.

While the varsity fared so ill, the JV team defeated Christian High School last Friday to retain their lead in Private School League competition. Four days before they had squeezed into first place when “Mitch” Watkins tallied two baskets in the final seconds of play to

UC trackmen upset Western Michigan

Captain Walt Deike’s Maroon trackmen upset the highly touted Western Michigan College team last Saturday at the fieldhouse, 62-42. The relay team of Dave Shepard, Phil Wyatt, Ken Stapley and George Mc Cormick ran the mile in 3:28.8 to set a new meet record.

The day before UC’s JV track team defeated Du Sable and

Lakeview high schools in a ~—; X—^CT—TTTTi—i-T triangular meet at the fieldhouse. S?^ ‘£e ^ ,n 2:00/, “ Maroons scored 56, Du Sable 32 and ™n* Frank U,mls ^ Jus‘

Lake View 16. Captain Jim Brown gave an outstanding performance When he ran the quarter mile in 53.1 seconds and Mike Chernoff won the pole vault with an 11' 4" leap.

In the Varsity meet Deike won the mile with a slow run of 4:32.9 •nd came back forty minutes later to win the two-mile with a 10:03.3 canter. Paul Baptist and Hal Higdon ran two and three in the two miles to give the Maroons a slam in this event.

George Mc Cormick ran the 440yard dash in 51.5 seconds and

tin Johnson ran a dead heat to tie in the low hurdles. Chicago showed good depth by placing second and third in many events. Johnson shared high point honors for the afternoon with Deike by adding seconds in the high hurdles and broad jump.

defeat Latin High School,

4745.

"Beet defensive gome"

Coach Stampf desribed the JV team as playing “the best defensive game of any team to appear on the hard court for Chicago” Meanwhile the “Flying Mites” lost to Latin, 42-35, and to Christian, 49-21.

Maroons defeat alumni

Last Saturday the Maroons, led by Bob Mann who scored 22 points, defeated former varsity basketballers in the annual alumni battle by a score of 79-65.

In "Wednesday’s game Chicago Teachers, paced by their hardhitting forward, Willie Jones, who seemed never to miss a shot,

early in the second quarter. Fred Hubbard, Bill Lester and Mann led a second rally later in the half, but Teachers retained their lead and led at the half, 41-36.

In the final two quarters Teachers tallied basket after basket. The Maroons surrendered all hope in the last period as Teachers increased their already large lead to the final 32 points.

Tonight the Maroons, still on the road, tackle Elmhurst College.

UC gymnasts

Maroons - 65

scored never game.

Maroon

the first four baskets and trailed throughout the

rally foils

Dave Smith led the Maroons to within three points of Teachers

Smith Mann Garcia Lonergan Hubbard

Homer Walker

Lester

Maroons

5 3
o 4

2

3

5

13

1 4

0

2

Chicago Teachers - 97

3 3

0

2 5

3 2

5

16

Chi. Teachers 21

Ringstrom Moore Schultz Donahue Jones Hennessey O’Farrell Reilly Moscato Lecos Mc Carthy Bowers

20 13

20 28

5 2

5

1

13

2

4

3

2

0 0

0

5 5

0

1

2 4

o 0

1 0

2 4

2 0

2 3

0 4

2

16—65

28—97

outpoint NU

The Maroon gymnasts outpointed their old rival, Northwestern, 51^-44*2 in Bartlett Gym last Saturday. Herb Taylor led the scoring for Chicago by taking the side horse, parallel bars and tumbling events. Bob Herndon won the other Chicago first place in his specialty, the trampoline. This was the last meet at home for Bud Beyer’s crew.

The JV team will meet their first competition today against Arlington Heights. Coach Bill Texter is counting on six novices: Dauphin, Leight, Mott, Adams, Komives and Jordan, to pile up points in this match.

ITS ALL A MATTER OF TASTE

| carton of better-tasting Luckies today.

||edidn’t W?^t ,?Jheart on. That ^^l£a**th0“9

Colorado

CW

G * * e

COLLEGE SMOKERS PREFER LUCKIES

CORR., TH® AMKRt CAN TOBACCO COMPANY

LUCKIES TASTE BETTER

A comprehensive survey — based on 31,000 student interviews and supervised by college professors—shows that smoker* in colleges from coast to coast prefer Luckies to all other brandaf The No. 1 reason: Luckies’ better taste!

O..nd.lr^>‘to’

F„k Uni'*V

Hawkeyes stab Maroon fencers

The Maroon fencers faced the Hawkeyes of Iowa University last Saturday in Iowa City and lost 15-12. Dave Karcher scored three wins in the sabre division while Dave Bobrow won two and lost one with the same weapon. Bill Zavis scored 2-1 with the foil.

Coach Hermanson’s fencers next parry with Illinois in Bartlett Gym on Wednesday afternoon.

fhe cotefl^^ud^a^n ’ How sma^.^ SV’kes again Ifc

wiu^^

Holy Cm”

When you come right down to it, you smoke for one simple reason enjoyment. And smoking enjoyment is all a matter of taste. Yes, taste is what counts in a cigarette. And Luckies taste better.

Two facts explain why Luckies taste better. First, L.S./M.F.T.—Lucky Strike means fine tobacco ... light, mild, goodtasting tobacco. Second, Luckies are actually made better to taste better . . • always round, firm, fully packed to draw freely and smoke evenly.

So, for the enjoyment you get from better taste, and only from better taste, Be Happy—-Go Lucky. Get a pack or a

You -''a’U&°??o^’^ r You may be y , one noon

CLEANER, FRESHER, SMOOTHER!