which hereditary characteristics

on evolution and popuphoto by Sygmund

University of Chicago, December 10, 1954

Sewall Wright,noted geneticist, leaves UC post after 28 years

Rockefeller chapel illuminated by floodlights, which shone for the first time this year during the performance of “The Messiah” Sunday.

Illumination of Rockefeller becomes

permanent evening feature on campus

Permanent lighting which illuminates the exterior of Rockefeller chapel was used for the first time Sunday.

The illumination greeted the audience leaving the annual performance of Handel’s Messiah by the UC choir Sunday evening. Hereafter from dusk to 11 p.m. nightly, the lighting, planned to emphasize the modeling of the structure, will be turned on.

The lighting of the chapel, masterpiece of the late Chicago architect, Bertram Grosvenor

Goodhue, has been installed to extend the intention of John D. Rockefeller, founder of the University, that the chapel be the central and dominant feature of the rangles.

Rockefeller sire when he

University quadexpressed this demade his final personal gift of $10 million in 1910, in which he made provision for the chapel.

“As the spirit of religion should penetrate and control the University, so that building which represents religion ought to be the central and dominant feature of the University group,” he wrote. “Thus it will be proclaimed that the University in its ideal is dominated by the spirit of religion, all of its departments are inspired by religious feeling, and all its work is directed to the highest ends.”

Rockefeller chapel, which cost approximately $1,900,000 was dedicated October 28. 1928. Of true Gothic construction, it is an irregular cruciform building 265 feet long and 120 feet wide, with a tower rising 207 feet.

One notable feature of the decoration is the series of figures representing the march of religion, which fills the gable on the south, or Midway, front of the chapel.

Kiendl to replace Birenbaum as activities director

William Birenbaum leaves his post as director of student activities January 1 to become dean of students at the downtown University college. Replacing him is Arthur Kiendl, present director of the University house system. Kiendl will continue to head the house system.

Birenbaum has been director of student activities since 1950. A student in the law school, he was graduated in 1949.

Kiendl became director of the house system just this quarter. I le was assistant dean and director of counseling at Dartmouth (allege before coming to UC, where he is also working on his doctorate in cortege administration.

Kiendl is a native of New Jersey and attended West Point and Dartmouth. He is a graduate of Dartmouth.

Harvey denies fraud

calls SECC stooge'

“The South East commission is a stooge for the University of Chicago under the most vicious snob I have ever met,’’ Aiderman William Harvey declared in the city council housing and planning committee meeting Wednesday. Harvey, who apparently was referring to Julian Levy, director of the South East Chicago commission, also denied that the pictures he

had displayed the previous week were designed to perpetrate a fraud.

Last week, Harvey showed pictures of 12 homes which he alleged were in the area to be torn down. Later the Sun-Times reported that only one of the homes was in the area. Harvey said Wednesday that all but two of the homes arg in the redevelopment area, and that the other two homes got in by an honest mistake on the part of a photographer who had trouble following the irregular outlines of the area of the Hyde Park redevelopment project, involving 47 acres between Kimbark and Lake Park avenues, 53rd and 57th streets.

Levy expresses regret

Julian Levy replied to the remark, “I have profound respect for Aiderman Harvey and I am

as memorial to Fermi

A suggestion to set up the world’s first nuclear reactor in the Chicago Museum of Science and Industry as a memorial to the late Enrico Fermi has been received “with an open mind’’ by museum officials.

The suggestion came from A. W. Kramer, editor of Power Engineering 

Lenox Lohr, director of the Travel discounts

Museum of Science and Industry, explained, “We think it’s today

a splendid suggestion, but we i

feel that the pile now is too John S,ocks travel sm, hot, from a radiation stand- announces that tickets lor the point, for exhibition without very Christmas special-discount fare costly safeguards such as exceed- on the Pacemaker will be on ingly heavy glass walls.” sale jn the bursar’s office to The old reactor which Fermi d Ticke, „, wi H ,* from master-minded and which mitiat ™

ed the atomic age, has long out- ^:^ a-m- to 4’30 p m. Assumlived its usefulness and was de- ing that the group numbers 25 commissioned last May. It is now Or more, there will be a saving located on a site in the Argonne oj 28 per cent on the roundtrip national laboratory reservation. „ .

The government’s lease on the fare 10 New Y°rk C1^site expires July 1, 1956.

Sewall Wright, Ernest D. Burton distinguished professor of zoology and world-famous geneticist, will become professor emeritus of UC on December 31. Wright will leave UC and take up residence at the University of Wisconsin, where he plans to continue research and writing and do a small amount of teaching.

Wright has been on the UC faculty since 1926.

Wright’s major contributions to the field of genetics have been his studies of the breeding and coat characters of guinea pigs and his determining of the statistical consequences of Mendelian evolution.

The latter field had been unexplored before Wright began his research relating to it. He made possible predictions of the effects

deeply sorry that we have descended to a discussion of personalities.”

Harvey said. “I hope that from here on in we can work together in harmony, but I just can’t understand why you don’t consider the human element.” Harvey also said that 1000 persons will be displaced, by the commission’s plan.

Plan a symbol

Levy added, “We hope that within this area we can prove that American citizens working together can root out the cancer in their community. If it continues it will spread and destroy a onceproud neighborhood. In a very real sense this plan has become a symbol for the people of Chicago — and even for the people of this nation —as to whether urban renewal can really work.” This was

See ‘Harvey,’ page 11

Travel discounts today

John Stocks travel service announces that tickets for the Christmas special-discount fare on the Pacemaker will be on sale in the bursar’s office today. Ticket sales will be from 9:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Assuming that the group numbers 25 or more, there will be a saving of 28 per cent on the round-trift fare to New York City.

will have lation.

Wright evolution

found that the rate of is more rapid in populations of medium size than in especially large or small populations, and even more rapid in small breeding-sections of a large species, not entirely isolated from each other.

Carl Moore, professor of zoology and chairman of the zoology department, stated in regard to ‘ Wright’s retirement, “Members of the department are very loath to see Wright go. It was our hope to see Mr. Wright stay beyond retirement here at the University of Chicago where he became famous.”

One of Wright’s co-workers said that Wright's greatness lies in “his penetrating perspective on all branches of science. He brings in

Dirty windows unhealthy must clean Commons'

The administration will continue with plans to clean Hutchinson Commons during the Christmas interim, said W. B. Harrell, vice-president of the University. Representatives of student government, opposing the project, estimate that it

will cost from five to eight denies this.

“This money is coming from somewhere and I’m certain it could be used better elsewhere,” maintained Al Fortier, SG president. It has been suggested by Fortier that improvement of the overcrowded C-shop and the inadequate Reynolds club facilities would be of greater immediate service to the student body.

Administration wants opinion

Harrell explained that the administration is interested in student opinion on the project, and the cleaning of .the Commons would not preclude other improvements in the Commons-C-shop area.

“Any saving is a start,” according to Anton De Porte, who also pointed out that “They’ve even stopped printing the thesis topics after grade names in the programs.”

At the suggestion of Dean Strozier, a committee composed of SG president Al Fortier, Howard Turner, and Janice Porter was appointed to discuss the question with Strozier. Harrell, and W. L. Krogman of the Buildings and Grounds staff.

According to Fortier and Turner, the committee was told that

photo by Sygmund

Experimental cleaning late last summer resulted in these clean patches on the Commons west wall. Actual cleaning will not lighten the woodwork this much, however.

special techniques of his own field in talking to experts in other fields,” and, he added, has a “profound ability to handle fundamental principles in fields outside his own.”

Born in Melrose. Mass., Wright did his undergraduate work at Lombard College in Galesburg, Illinois, received his MA from the University of Illinois, and his Sc D from Harvard. Wright holds honorary Sc D’s from the University of Rochester, Yale, and Harvard.

Wright worked with the Department of Agriculture as senior animal husbandman for the Bureau of Animal Industry from 1915 through 1925, when he joined the UC faculty. Wright, who received the Ernest D. Burton professorship in 1937. was Hitchcock professor at the University of California in 1943 and Fulbright professor at the University of Edinburgh in 1949-50.

thousand dollars, but Harrell

the money had already been earmarked for the Commons area and could not be spent anywhere alse.

SG then decided to ask the students for suggestions on how else the money could be spent in improving the Commons-C-shop facilities. A questionnaire signed by Fortier was drawn up to be circulated in the C-shop. and additional suggestions were to be left at the Reynolds club desk.

Cleaning a health measure

Harrell explained that the cleaning of Hutchinson Commons was being undertaken as a health measure, and pointed out that the job would include much more than window washing.

The job is being done by an outside firm; bids are now being considered. It will involve cleaning of the side-walls, the ornamental freeze "work, the medallions, the purlins, the roof tresses and the sheating. The traditionally dirty windows of the Commons will be washed and coated with a paint formula in order to make them translucent.

The story about the Commons windows claims that the present

See ‘Dirty Windows,’ page 13 December 10, 1954

Final registration date announced as Jan. 5; Two types of late fees cause confusion

by Fred Freed

The final date for registration and the payment of tuition for the coming winter quarter is January 5, and once more students are faced with the confusion that this date always seems to bring.

Much of this confusion arises from the fact that there are two types of late fees the late registration fee and the 

Mystery photo identified by Viennese phy. sci. student

Last week’s mystery photo contest was won by Peter Spugler, a student in the physical science division. From Vienna, Peter has been in this country since 1951. This is his second

late payment fee, according to

Albert Cotton, bursar.

The late registration fee, a $5 charge by the registrar's office, will be assessed from each students who registers after January 5. It is added on to the tuition payment right on the registration card.

The late payment fee, also $5, is charged by the bursar of those students who fail to pay their tuition or to make arrangements for payment before the January 5 deadline. The Bursar’s office will be open from 9 to 5 o’clock on both January 4 and 5.

Now the student might think

that if he both registers and pays his tuition after the January 5 deadline, he will be charged both late fees. However, if he pays his tuiton or makes arrangement to do so no later than the day following his registration, he can avoid the late payment fee. He will not escape the late registration fee, of

course.

.Any student who has his tub tion payment in the mail but fears that it will arrive after the January 5 deadline, can go to the Bursar’s office and ask for a day’s grace. “We try to be very understanding of student problems,’’ said Cotton.

UNIVERSITY FOODS

1129 E. 55th

Open daily & Sundays: fl A.M. till 9:30 P.M. NSA discount on $3.00 purchases

year at the University.

The mystery photo was of the metal ornamentation on the door of Kent lab, facing the quadrangles. Spugler said that he had seen this door being repainted during the summer. “They took the metal ornament off and you could see the pattern left on the door,” he commented.

The first UC student to reach the Maroon office with the correct identification of the week’s mystery photo will receive a carton of Phillip Morris cigarettes, donated by the Phillip Morris company. Entries must state what the object is and where it is located, and should include the name, address, and telephone number of the entrant. All entries must be brought to the Maroon office.

Staff members and their families are not eligible.

Hutchins delivers talk on education next February

Robert M. Hutchins, former chancellor of the University, will visit the Chicago area during the winter quarter. He is scheduled to lecture February 1 before the Ansche Emet Forum Institute on “Crises in American education.”

The lecture will be held in the Solemn Goldman auditorium, 4040 North Sheridan road. Tickets can be purchased at the auditorium. They will be distributed on a first come—first served basis.

The exciting new idea behind the motoramic Chevrolet

The Bel Air 4-Door Sedan—one of 14 new Fisher Body beauties in three new seriee

Maybe once in a car-buying lifetime, you come across something that breaks all the old patterns and establishes new ones. This is that kind of car. This is the true story of how Chevrolet and General Motors shaped a new idea in steel.

Power Beyond Compare!

You also feel the new idea [ quickly quick power like a panther’s paw with the new “Turbo-Fire V8” (162 h.p.) and two new “Blue-Flame” 6’s. And sparking this perform- r ance is a 12-volt electrical system giving you better igni And so to Jimmy’s

1172 E. 55th

Like most good ideas, this one is pretty simple. Chevrolet and General Motors set out to build the first low-priced car that would:

• bring you the very freshest and finest styling to be had.

• bring you the most advanced engine design and engineering features.

• bring you the kind of performance and the kind of ride that have never been available before in a low-priced car.

• bring you the highest quality of manufacture and materials.

All this in Chevrolet’s price field? That did take some doing! And isn’t it logical that only Chevrolet and General Motors have the people, skills, resources and facilities, to carry out this exciting new idea? Here is how 1^ th*8 ncw Chevrolet changes all

1l\ your ideas about cars!

tion, faster starting, greater electrical reserve for any of the power assists you might desire. You have a transmission choice of economical Overdrive and improved, automatic Powcrglide (optional at extra cost) or standard shift.

Even Air Conditioning!

And if you desire the convenience of power assists (optional at extra cost) you’ll find new power-steering and improved power brakes on all models. Power-controlled windows and powershift seat arc available on the Bel Air and “Two-Ten” models, while air conditioning may be added on V8 models.

CHRISTMAS

GIVE THE REVISED STANDARD VERSION RULE

THE PERFECT GIFT t. S. V. I.

Genuine Leather $10.00

 6.00

Illustrated editions $3.25 ft $3.50

Come in and see our complete selection

WOODWORTH’S BOOK STORE

1311 E. 57th St.

>£ %><>. ><%>>, a^di X^xs'.ati

.-^i Hi^^^ll Real Show-Car Styling!

I i f Tour eye tells you the Motoramic

Chevrolet is no styling “patch-up” job. A rakish, low profile soft swiftness from its sleek rear fenders to its wide-eyed Sweep-Sight windshield ... a new outlook for motoring. And that outlook doesn’t change when you slip inside exciting fabrics and trim are harmonized with the whole car A Sensational Ride!

\ H Y°u live the new idea instantly

! : • y°u ?'^e • • • actually glide j because spherical joints “roll with ,*,^==^r-^<* ' the punch” of the road in Chevrolet’s new Glide-Ride front suspension. And outrigger rear springs mean new balance in turns turns made so effortless by new ball-race steering. And when you stop suddenly, new Anti-Dive braking control checks that nosing down in front you get “heads up” stopping. Tubeless tires mean much greater protection against blowouts. And with new high-level ventilation there’s fresher air.

Drive with care

Here, we can only tell you how successfully the Motoramic Chevrolet expresses the new idea behind it. But the ear itself can quickly show you/ Come in for a demolish ation drive, won't you, first chance you get.

MORE THAN A NEW CAR, A NEW CONCEPT OF LOW-COST MOTORING

Everything's new In the

motoramic

CHEVROLET

CHEVROLET

EVERYWHERE! Make December 15 and every day SAFE-DRIVING DAY!

See your Chevrolet Dealer December 10, 1954

Is man doomed

to new ice age?

The pattern of past variations in the temperature of

the

earth indicates that a new ice age may appear within the next 10,000 years, a UC geologist said Wednesday night at the meeting in Eckhart hall of the American Meteorological society. Cesare Emiliani, research associate in the Institute for Nuclear Studies, hinted at the possibility of a new glacial age

which may bury cities like Chicago, Berlin, and Moscow under a thousand feet of ice.

Emiliani also reported that long range studies indicate the earth is pelting colder. The temperature of the oceans has dropped about II degrees in the last thirty million years.

Method explained

Emiliani’s studies are based upon a method of measuring the ratios of two forms of oxygen in the shells of fossil micro-organisms. This method, developed by Hie University’s Nobel prize winner Harold C. Urey in 1947, ha's already shown that the ratio of these forms of oxygen, oxygen 16 and oxygen 18, varies with the temperature of the water in which these tiny creatures once lived.

It has long been known that at least four successive ice ages with intervening warmer periods have swept over the earth’s continents. The geological record of the continents is unfortunately fragmentary and incomplete, Emiliani pointed out.

Sea yields secret

’ *

To find out what actually happened during the last million years, scientists have turned to an examination of the climatic record of the sea. Samples of deep sea sediment may be obtained by

GIVE HER

Eau de Toilette ... a gift she will long enjoy. In a merry see-thru package with a bright red ribbon.

$2.75 am) $3.95

Eau de Toilette and Dusting Powder . . • a delightful combination that will give her pleasure every day. In a lacy gift package. Also available in beloved Quelques Fleurs.

$3.25*

Liquid Skin Sachet, the original “perfume that clings” bits on a sunburst pedc Hal.

*Plu reduced Fed. T*

It EABEICS

‘*Thr Campus Itruy Starr" 61st and Ellis Opposite Burton Judson

cutting cores from the bottom of the ocean. The cores may be as much as 60 feet long and reach back in time more than 2.000.000 years. Studies of the tiny fossil organisms found in the cores have shown that the temperature of the surface of the sea has varied several degrees Fahrenheit in the last million years, in separate periods of about 40.000 years, he continued.

The coldest points in these periods corresponded to the glacial ages. The variation of the temperature may have been due to variations in the intensity of radiation given off by the sun.

Emiliani explained that the examination of even older microorganisms which lived in the deep bottom of the central Pacific revealed the general falling off in temperatures during the last 30,000,000 years. The cause for this long range temperature variation was probably the progressive retreat of the sea from the continents and the building up of the earth’s great mountain belts.

Temperature causes cycles

At temperatures beyond a certain limit, variations in the sun cycle induced alternations of glacial and interglacial ages, he added. During the ice ages vast areas of North America, Europe and northern Asia have been covered with hundreds of thousands of feet of ice. In the warmer interglacial periods, the ice melted away.

$1.85

Rights day proclaimed

Student Government at its Tuesday meeting, proclaimed December 10 as Human Rights day on the UC campus. The action wos taken in conjunction with a suggestion from NSA and UNESCO.

Today is the sixth anniversary of the enactment of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in the UN. It is still unratified by the US Senate.

A display on Human Rights is now in the north Lounge of the Reynolds club.

SG drafts State dept

exchange plan letter

A letter to the State department concerning a proposed visit of Soviet student editors to the United States was drafted at the Student Government meeting last Tuesday evening. The latter stated SG’s views on student exchange, and asked that the State department grant visas to the Soviet editors.

The student assembly also filled three appointive positions.

Kent Marshall was named to fill the seat on the Southeast Chicago commission, that is designated for a UC student. Marshall is a student in the federated theological schools and is not a SG member.

Jane Stanford was elected to the chairmanship of the commission on the University neighborhood. Miss Stanford. (ISL-Soc. Sci.l, is a student in the planning department. James Winkleman, a fourth year college student, was named to head the SG educational survey commission.

Jan Porter (SRP-Col.) introduced the question of the Soviet editors’ visit. She presented a letter to student assembly expressing “the desirability of (obtaining! better communication between iron curtain countries and the west.’’ Specific reference was made to a group of Soviet student editors who are planning to visit

The Soviet editors are members of a "roup that first applied for American visas during the summer. The State department denied

When you buy this combination:

BOGEN

DB 20 DF Amp.

and

s108M

BOGEN $i i

R 460K AM-FM Tuner I I

We accept trades on the above Custom Audio and Component Cabinet?

Cash or budget

LUND COMPANY

5236 Blackstone Ave. MU 4-5300

Open Thursday and Sunday eves, till 8pm *

Notables and students

pay homage to Fermi

Enrico Fermi was hailed as a friend and teacher, as well a S one of the great scientific figures of the 20th century, at a memorial service held in his honor last Friday in Rockefeller chapel.

Crowds attending the service filled the main floor of th^ chapel. During the service, classes in the physics and chemistry departments were dis- —: missed. Activities in the nuclear physics institute came to almost a complete halt.

The memorial service was attended hy Peiro Guadagnini, Italian consul - general, and

the visas at that time, suggesting that the editors apply at a later date. The department stated that the visas were denied because US schools were not in session.

Miss Porter’s draft letter received sharp criticism from a number of ISL members. A new letter was drafted and introduced by Pat Parker (ISL-bus.) and amended by Martin Gouterman (ISL-Bi.-Sci.). The final letter contained numerous conditions under which SG would approve of a student exchange. These were based to a large extent on a resolution passed at the seventh student congress of the National Student association.

Conditions which SG felt desirable for international student exchange as outlined in the letter, include long-term academic exchanges and a maximum of personal contacts between students of the different nations. The letter cautioned against exchanges which would “be utilized for purposes of partisan political propaganda,’’ but did not specify whether the proposed visit of Soviet students fell in this category.

Chancellor Lawrence A. Kinip. ton, who interrupted an eastern speaking tour. UC faculty members from all departments and leading members of the Chicago operations office of the Atomic Energy commission also at tend Speaking in tribute to Fermi were Herbert Anderson, professor of physics in the Institute for Nuclear Studies; Samuel K. Allison, professor of physics and director of the Institute for Nuclear Studies; and Emilio Serge, professor of physics at the University o C California.

Anderson spoke of Fermi, first as Fermi’s student at Columbia university, then as hi# co-worker in the building of the pile which culminated in man’# first controlled release of atomic energy 12 years ago.

Anderson said, “The eternal scholar, Fermi was always eager to learn. He was always grateful when he found out something new. What he learned, he felt he should enrich. Having enriched what he learned, he felt he should teach- it to others. Thus he prepared the fertile ground out of which arose the new solutions, the new ideas which kept the subject bright, fresh, and exciting.

Speaking of the Institute Alik son said: “Actually the Institute is his Institute, for he is its outstanding source of intelleetual stimulation. It was Enrico who attended every seminar, and with incredible brilliance, critically essayed every new idea or discovery.

"‘Fermi was,” Allison continue^ “one of the intellectuals who abandoned a comfortable professorship and great honors in his own country to join us and become a citizen of the United States. The only reason for this was that the limitations placed o< the range and freedom of activity of (he mind had become intolerable in the countries which they left.”

Serge reminded those present at the memorial service that even before the building of the first atomic pile. Fermi was one of the major figures of modern physics.

“The theory of the Raman effect, of the hyperfine structure, of the intensity of the alkali doublets, of J he pressure shift of spectral lines, of the latitude effect in cosmic rays, the concept of the virtual quanta accompanying a moving change, the statistical atom and many more hear testimony to tin* universality of his interest and to the power of his genius. He Initialled many a line of thought which was to be pursued by a whole generation, and the mine is yet not fully exploited.”

Serge remembered that in the early days Fermi “selected a small nucleus of his own men by his

See ‘Fermi,’ page 16

COMO

PIZZERIA

1520 E. 55th St.

Golden Brown Southern Fried Chicken

Delivered $1.00

Delivery Anywhere

FA 4-5525 Page 4

THE CHICAGO MAROON

December 10, 1954

NSA exec, committee meets

Student Forum breaks even in

here Dec. 27-31; open to all

The national executive committee of the National Student Association, open to all interested observers, will meet on the UC campus December 27-31.

The Illinois region is entitled to two seats on the executive committee because it represents an unusually large number of students. Both seats are occupied by UC students. Illinois region president Bruce Larkin holds one seat and chairs the executive committee, and Larry Lichtenstein, regional vice-president, occupies the other.

first national debate tourney

Last weekend Student Forum attended the first tournament of the year that was truly national in scope, at the State University of Iowa. Debating the topic, “Resolved: that the United States should extend diplomatic recognition to the Communist government of China,” the team made a record of four victories and four defeats. 

The affirmative team, con-' defeated the University of Mis Among agenda items are a number of major policy questions, mid-year staff reports, review of regional activity, and selection of a site for the 1955 NSA congress.

The executive commitee acts as interim policy body between annual NSA congresses. It is responsible for reviewing staff actions in the light of congress mandates, and for assuring that the mandates are carried out. If important matters arise on which there is no mandate the executive committee is authorized to take special action for NSA.

NSA is a confederation of approximately 300 student governments on campuses throughout the country. The first meeting of delegates from the various schools to plan the association’s beginning was held in Mandel hall in December, 1946. The University of Chicago has been a member school Since the organization was begun.

NSA conducts a program of relations with other unions of students abroad, and with national educational organizations in this country. St^ff members represent student views on matters of military manpower, student tax relief, and government - sponsored educational exchange programs.

NSA material has been distributed to all member campus regarding UN day and Human Rights day this autumn. Information regarding various activities of student governments can be obtained through NSA.

sisting of Michael Stanley and Joseph Engel, defeated the University of South Dakota, and in turn were defeated by Minnesota, Iowa, and the University of Texas.

The negative team consisting of John Merrill and Roger Bowen

UC Wash Prom bids priced at $5

Prices of bids for the 1955 Washington Promenade were fixed at $5 Friday at the first meeting of the Wash Prom committee.

An operational plan for transporting UC students from campus to the north side Hotel Knickerbocker, where the dance will be held, was also formulated.

The organizational meeting was chaired by Joan Raphael and attended by a central group who will run the 1955 Wash Prom, to be held February 19. Remaining plans for the dance will be announced after Christmas vacation.

Advise registering this week for four college preceptorial courses

According to Charles G. Bell, professor of the humanities in the college, it is advisable to register for college preceptorial courses this week. A preceptorial, a project involving intensive

souri, Iowa, and the University of Florida, losing only to the University of Kansas. The outstanding teams in the tournament were Indiana. 7-1, Kansas, 6-2, and Marquette, 6-2.

This Saturday there will be a novice tournament at Navy Pier. A team consisting of Charles Carlson, Thomas Jersild, Michael Stanley, and Richard Johnson will represent UC. The first major home debate will be held on January 13. Dewane Barnes and Yeheqvel Ben-Yeshai will defend the proposition that "Woman’s place is in the home,’’ time and location yet to be announced.

independent work in a variant of one of the five terminal courses, may be elected by students preparing for social sciences 3, humanities 3, and history comprehensives.

The preceptorial topics offered this year are as follows: History, some features of cultural history in relation to the parent course; Humanities, criticism through comparison; Social Science, Marx and Mill or civil liberties.

Preceptorial essays may be submitted as evidence of eligibility for honors work. In order to be accepted for honors work a student must have an average of at least “B” and no grade lower than a "C.”

The application of the student must also be approved by a committee of the department. Applications for Honors work must be submitted and approved by the first week of the winter quarter.

&a W

of atrip

LUCKY DROODLES ? OODLES!

EATEN r-BONE STEAK Judy Magaram U.C.L.A.

CONTOUR CHAIR FOR INDIAN FAKIRS Richard S. Nelson Creighton University

CENTER LINE ON MOUNTAIN ROAD PAINTED BY MAN WALKING BACKWARDS

Philip Wagher Western Illinois State College

WHAT’S THIS? For solution see paragraph below.

IT’S A FACT!

brands—and

College smokers prefer Luckies to all other by a wide margin—according to the latest,

BULLET HOLES FROM SQUARE SHOOTER

Allan Freund Michigan Normal

OX MAKING OXTAIL SOUP

Alfred J, Farina Hunter College

go Home MM

greatest coast-to-coast college survey. The No. 1 reason: Luckies taste better. They taste better, first of all, because Lucky Strike means fine tobacco. Then, that tobacco is toasted to taste better. “les^Toasted”—the famous Lucky Strike process—tones up Luckies’ light, good-tasting tobacco to make it taste even better. Now for the Droodle above, titled: Inept smoke ring blown by ept smoker. He’s ept, of course, because he smokes Luckies. Be ept yourself and enjoy the better-tasting cigarette Lucky Strike.

ea taste Luckies

Beats the stuffing out of other transportation! Storms can’t cancel your trip. Traffic jams can’t make you miss vacation dates, or get you back to the campus late. And it’s more fun traveling by train with your crowd, enjoying swell dining car meals en route.

STUDENTS!

EARN $25!

Lucky Droodles*are pouring in! Where are yours? We pay $25 for all we use, and for many we don’t use. So send every origina 1 Droodle in your noodle, with its descriptive title, to Lucky Droodle, P.O. Box 67, New York 46, N. Y.

•DROODI.ES, Copyright 1 953 by Roger Price

Save 25% or More

And this is gravy! Travel home and back with two or more friends on Group Coach Tickets. On most trips of 100 miles or more, you each save 25% of usual round-trip rate. Still better, gather 25 or more to travel long-distance together on the same homeward train. Then return singly or together, and each save 28% of the regular coach round-trip fare.

LUCKIES TASTE BETTER

Get the Full Fact# from Your Railroad Ticket Agent Well in Advance

CLEANER

FRESHER, SMOOTHER!

©A.T. Co. PRODUCT OF

America’s leading manufacturer of cigarette*

Eastern

Railroads December 10, 1954

THE CHICAGO MAROON

Page 5

National Interfraternity council meets at U. of Pennsylvania

More than 500 deans of men and representatives of American and Canadian college and university fraternities and interfraternity councils participated in the graduate and findergraduate sessions of the National Interfraternity council at the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia last weekend.

Almost 200 undergraduate students represented 58 fraternities from 90 colleges and

Ask for ciothmg Libby to give address to send refugees .

in Europe, Korea Gt ZOJrd COn VOCatl On

universities throughout the United States and Canada.

Larry Sherman. ZBT. representing the UC Interfraternity council. attended a series of panel discussions on methods of improving rushing activities, scholarship, public relations, and operation of interfraternity councils at the campus level.

Sherman attached particular importance to a group discussion among schools with less than 15 fraternities, and felt that suggestions by schools with situations similar to UC’s could be put to use on our campus. He will submit

Perennial favorite in glamorous new oval window . package—perfect for every stocking on your list,

4 oz.... $2®9 8 oz- l°ttle • • • ^Q50

Prices plus tax

READER'S “The Campus Drug fitore'*

61st and Ellis Opposite Burton Judson

This Ad is Worth ^$00

his report for IF council consideration next quarter.

Featured speakers were Robert T. Mc Cracken, chairman of the board of trustees of the University of Pennsylvania, and Dr. Kenneth Mc Farland, educational consultant and lecturer for General Motors. Other present included James C. Mc Leod, dean of men at Northwestern University, and Frank H. Myers, chairman of the Interfraternity Research and Advisory council.

The grand trophy, which is presented to the IF council which has conducted the most effective program during the past year, was awarded to Ohio State University.

In cooperation with World Church Service, Chapel house will serve as a receiving center on campus for gifts of used clothing to be sent for distribution among refugees in Europe and Korea. The need is very urgent in both places during the winter months.

Students who have warm used clothing to donate are asked to leave it at Chapel house, 5810 Woodlawn, on any day between 9 a.m. and 9 p.m. The clothing will be shipped abroad on January 1.

Biddle describes famed justice: Holmes’ philosophy told

The colorful, unusual, often peculiar character of Oliver Wendell Holmes was clarified by Francis Biddle, once law clerk to the famous Supreme Court justice, Mondav night in

Breasted hall.

Often called the “Great Dissenter” because of his opinions issued in dissent to the majority of the Supreme Court, Holmes did not believe in the theory of natural law. To him, laws were just generalties, of which he was very skeptical.

Instead, explained Biddle, Holmes applied his idea of life, “an ever - changing, growing thing,” to his practice of law, with

 throughout the country, including

1. Our DRIVE-IN Window for checking accounts

2. Our 24-hour depository

3. Bank-by-Mail

4. Safe Deposit Boxes on our Lobby Floor

UNIVERSITY NATIONAL BANK

"A STRONG BANK”

1354 East 55th Street, Corner Ridgewood Court

Member Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation

1321 E. 31th St.—PL 2-9231

Dr. Willard F. Libby, former UC professor, now on the Atomic Energy commission, will deliver the convocation address to the 263rd graduating class of the University. The convocation, at which about 335 degrees will be conferred, will be held at 3 p.m. next Friday in Rockefeller chapel.

Libby, who won acclaim in 1950 as the originator of Carbon 14, method for determining the age of organic material, awarded, as will four divisional will speak on scientific educa- AB’s. 104 MA and SM degrees will tion. be conferred, as will 39 MBA. 3

Bachelor’s degrees will be awarded to 95 in general education. Six joint-degree AB’s will be

unusual results.

But Holmes was not a liberal. His idea of law as artificial resulted in his ridiculing reformers, “anyone from socialists to the anti-cruelty society,” as “do-gooders,” because of course, “it is impossible to legislate bliss and happiness.”

The Constitution to him was an experiment, and he was unafraid of new interpretations.

In addition to regular banking services, make use of our special services for your convenience.

3D, and 8 JD degrees. 76 Ph D’s will be conferred.

Libby left the University this fall to accept President Eisenhower’s appointment to the Atomic Energy commission.

During the war he was a member of the Manhattan project, which designed the atomic bomb. In 1950 President Truman named

him to the AEC general advisory committee.

He is a member of the National Academy of Science, the American Physics society, the American Chemical society. Phi Beta Kappa, Pi Mu Epsilon, Alpha Chi Sigma and Sigma Xi.

Set grad business test for February 3

The admission test for graduate study in business, required for entrance by a number of graduate business schools or divisions

UC’s, will be offered February 3 and May 14.

The admission test is not designed to test specific knowledge in specialized academic subjects. Normal undergraduate training should provide sufficient general knowledge to answer the test questions. Sample questions; and information regarding registration for and administration of the test are given in a bulletin of information.

Applications and fees must be filed with Educational Testing service. 20 Nassau street, Princeton, N. J., at least two weeks before the testing date desired, in order to allow time to complete the necessary testing arrangements.

CARMEN'S Used Furniture Store CHRISTMAS TREES FOR SALE Moving and Light Hauling 1127 E. 55 1412 E. 55

MU 4-9003

RELIANCE CAMERA & PHOTO SUPPLIES

1517 East 63rd St.

BU 8-6040

1911 E. 33rd St.—HY 3-3300

HIGH FIDELITY SYSTEM 

on the purchase of this complete

Bell Model 2122C Amplifier

aad enjy

If you bring t W

Triplo-Play Cartridge

Permoflux Diminuotta Speaker System

Garrard Medel T Record Player

J Visit as and see the latest equipment in Hi Fi. Easy Lay-A-Way Plan

o Convenient Time Payments Generous Trade-in Allowances

in Wed. evening* *• *•

Serving University Personnel For Years

ROOM LINEN SERVICE NOW AVAILABLE "OFF CAMPUS”

BETZ JEWELRY

Unusual Jewelry Our Specialty

Expert Jewelry and Watch Repair

N.S.A. Discount to Students

1523 E. 53rd PL 2-3038

Bring this ad to nnn arthur Hr U nagel, inc

918 East 55th Street Butterfield 8-5050

Yes, you can save yourself the expense of buying and always replacing linen by using this wonderful service Linens-of-the Week. Linens are FURNISHED, LAUNDERED, and DELIVERED for one low price. Rates compare very favorably with laundromat and laundry prices. Economical, convenient. Ask for the student bundle.

For further information call

EStebrook 9-1200

Suburbs - Enterprise 6363

WEEKLY RENTAL CHARGES

Sheets--81". .20c Pillowcases. Oc

Dish Tow els. . Ie

Sheets--72". .20c Tablecloths. . I8e

Washcloths. .3c

Hath Towels. .Sc

Face Towels. . Ie

Linens-of-the-Week

While yon are in the neighborhood doing your gift shopping, stop in at the

L&C Food Market and do your grocery shopping at the same time. Come in and get acquainted. We have a full line of traditional Christmas foods. We also sell small Christmas trees for students living in the dorms and large ones for those in apartments.

L&C Food Market

1028 E 55th Ml 4-0057

Open 7 days a week from 8:30 AM. to II P.M. Page 6

THE CHICAGO MAROON

December 10, 1954

Issued once weekly by the publisher, The Chicago Maroon, at the publication office, 5706 South University Avenue, Chicago 37, Illinois. Telephones: Editorial Office, Midway 3^0800, Ext. 1010; Business and Advertising Offices, Midway 3-08G0, Ext. 1009. Distributed free of charge, and subscriptions by mail, $3 per year. Business Office hours: 1 to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday.

ALLEN R RICHARD E. editor

WILLIAM M. BRANDON. . business manager

Executive news editor. Burboch

News Epstein, Bob Quinn, David Schlessinger

Feature Friedmann

Sports Pinney

Production Slein

Photography editor . Ronald Grossman Copy Carlsson

Personnel Burboch

Advertising Mokotoff

Editorial staff Joe Abatie, Paul Baptist, Sam Blazer, Robert Bloch, Alice Bloom, Roger Bowen, Paul Breslow, Alon Charlens, Prentiss Choote, Charles Cooper, Kent Flannery, Fred Freed, Rosemary Galli, Lois Gardner, Som Greenlee, Bonnie Greatmon, Bill Kaplan, Jean Kwon, Bruce Larkin. Carolyn Martinetti, Joe Picheny, Ed Regol, Sue Tax, Frank Ternenyi, Dorothy Eppler, Don Fisher, Berenice Fisher, Gory Swortz, Fred Karst.

Business staff City advertising manager, Robert Lofts; Business secretary, Don Miller; Subscription manager, Norman Lewak; Billing secretory, Tom Kapantais.

 Jokolski, Victor Posnick, Som Tipton, George Zygmund.

judged too harshly for conforming.

The printed portion of the manifesto distributed by the College of St. Rose, however, is an entirely different matter-and the writer of the editorial apparently failed to note this distinction. In declaring opposition to the question on the grounds quoted, St. Rose is merely throwing sand, and the writer seems to have gotten some of it in his eyes. The question before the debaters for inquiry is not “Resolved that the Chinese people have more freedom under the People’s Republic of China than under Chiang Kai Shek’s regime.” The question up for debate is “Resolved that the United States should extend diplomatic recognition to the Communist government of China.” In rising to the bait offered by the St. Rose manifesto, the writer is guilty of the same cloudy thinking which gave birth to the statements in the manifesto. And the emotionalism which permits either St. Rose or the writer of the editorial to divert the subject of the debate is, in my opinion, the most dangerous-factor in public opinion today. It is this emotionalism which makes it possible for a Mc Carthy, a Hitler, or a Lenin to distort facts and convince an ’ audience of things that “ain't necessarily so.”

Sincerely,

(Mrs.) Carolyn H. Paichel,

tions in that it solicits advertising on a regular and frequent basis, adding further to its income.

A glance at any other newspaper will not, I am sure, reveal any 60 per cent of the paper’s space devoted to display advertising, especially if the paper is as small as eight pages. And any other newspaper must make ends meet on the strength of its advertising rates alone, without any support from outside.

Certainly the Maroon has a circulation large enough to merit charging enough per column-inch of space to be commensurate with its expenses, which are considerably lessened by the use of a voluntary staff which do not draw pay checks every week.

As a student reads the Maroon, he wonders whether the staff as

a whole is taking advantage of the opportunity afforded by college journalism to learn the newspaper business, which is the business of publishing a readable, newsy, good newspaper.

John W. Harris

Editor’s note: Total pages published by the Maroon has increased by roughly 50 per cent over the fall quarter 1953. During the same period, space devoted to new’s and news feature materials has approximately doubled, an indication that they are at least getting their share of the added space.

The Maroon gets no fixed subsidy and rarely gets more than 10 per cent of its total budget for the year. Rates are commensurate.

UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO

“ APPOINTMENT CALENDAR :

o A beautiful 8Vi x 11-inch calendar, printed in two colors, J o with a campus scene on every page. *

AVAILABLE DEC. 10, AT U. OF C. BOOKSTORE ;

STUDENT PRICE $1

Debate editorial scored

I should like to comment on your editorial concerning this year's national debate topic, which appeared in the December 3, 1954, Maroon.

Although the writer of the editorial neglected to state the debate topic under fire (an omission which was certainly an impediment to the reader’s understanding), the topic concerns the diplomatic recogniton of Communist China by the United States.

I quite agree with the writer’s feeling that Mr. Cushing’s ban of the debate topic is regrettable. Even more regrettable, certainly, is the fact that to safeguard the reputation of his college in the

current climate of opinion, Mr. Cushing found this action expedient. Taking this factor, i.e., the current trend of public opinion, into consideration, I find it difficult to condemn Mr. Cushing’s stand as wholeheartedly as did the writer. An individual judging the debate could very easily find that a decision for the affirmative, regardless of how objectively the decisions were made, could imperil his reputation and. hence, his job in the eyes of various vigilant “investigating” committees. For this reason, I feel that this year’s debate topic was poorly chosen, in spite of the fact that it is a legitimately debatable question I join with the writer in deploring the situation; but those whose jobs depend upon conformity should not. in my opinion, be

Too many ads

In the eight-page November 19 issue of the Chicago Maroon, a measurement with ruled and calculation with pencil showed that the paper contained 235 columninches of news, feature, and editorial copy, 11 column-inches of classified advertisements, and 371 inches of display advertisements. Reduced to easier figures, this means that display advertising covered more than 150 per cent of the space occupied on the paper's pages by news, or 60 per cent of the total space.

The Maroon is one of the most heavily-subsized of all student activities, in addition to which it is unique among student organiza CAMPUS FOOD SHOP

Delicatessen - Bakery Leave your party orders with us

1369 E. 57th St.

Midway 3-7229

A CASA Book Store

CHRISTMAS CARDS CONTEMPORARY CONVENTIONAL

IMPORTED FOREIGN LANGUAGE

Featuring one of the largest and most distinctive collections of 5c cards in the city

HY 3-9G51 1117 E. 55th Street

TRY TCP at JEWEL CONOCO Service Station m W Perfect Car Wash

3601 South Cottage Grove MV 4-9106

holiday greetings from the staff of

HYDE PARK and HARPER Theatres

Deor U. of C. Patrons:

We invite you to relax from exam cramming and hectic holiday preparations, ot what we choose to coll our HOLIDAY FILM FETE Ananthology of film classics, in limited two-day “editions"! The schedule mokes a daily change of program available to you between both theatres just in case you take your relaxing that seriously!

We want to express our gratification and gratitude • your steady and appreciative patronoge during the past year. We promise to continue our efforts to bring yuu first-rote film entertainment We wish you o hoppy holiday season, and hope our FILM FETE helps to moke it even more golo for you.

Sincerely yours,

ROSE DUNN, Managing Director

FABULOUS FRENCH PERFUMES

NOW FOR THE PRICE OF

Hili :

Plus Fed. tax

SUPPLY LIMITED —BUY TODAY!

\regularly ^25°° NOW $1

at the hyde park theatre lake park at 53rd

HOLIDAY FILM FETE

- NO 7-9071 I. phone both - * ^Tt'^

NOW playing “CAINE MUTINY” and “REAR WINDOW”

4 Separate Gift Packages of INDISCREL TAILSPIN, SIROCCO and ORGUEIL!

I Deluxe Bottle of INDISCRET for Personal Use! Complete Album Makes A Spectacular Gift!

LUCIEN LELO NG

READER’S

‘‘The Campus Drug Store'9

61st and Ellis .Opposite Burton Judson

I. FRIDAY AND SATURDAY, DEC. 17 and 18 II.

A fabulous 3'/a hour film-medley! "PAGLIACCI" with Gina LOLLOBRIGIDA's beauty, Tito Gobbi's voice, ond Sinclair LEWIS titles and narration.

"TABU" Robert FLAHERTY ond F. W. MURNAU collaborated on this one AND W. C. FIELDS' "Never Give a Sucker on Even Break." (The one "FIELDS" we haven't shown yet!)

• IL SUNDAY ONLY, DEC.

NATHANIEL HAWTHORNE'S "HOUSE OF SEVEN GABLES"

CHARLES DICKENS' "MR. PIP"

The Great Suspense Classic!

"WOMAN IN THE WINDOW" Great Director LEWIS MILESTONE'S Masterpiece of War Epics! "ALL QUIET ON THE WESTERN FRONT"

19 - IV.

TWO ALFRED HITCHCOCKS! "SHADOW OF A DOUBT" Screenplay by Thornton Wilder "SABOTEUR"

V. MONDAY AND TUESDAY, DEC. 20 and 21 VI.

JOHN BARRYMORE in ELMER RICE'S ORSON WELLES

"COUNSELLOR-AT-LAW" "THE STRANGER"

CAROLE LOMBARD and WILLIAM POWELL CHARLES LAUGHTON

"MY MAN GODFREY" "THE SUSPECT"

VII. WEDNESDAY AND THURSDAY, DEC. 22 and 23 VIII. Claudette Colbert JAMES STEWART

"IMITATION OF LIFE" MARGARET SULLAVAN

A Portmanteau Film Directed by "NEXT TIME WE LOVE"

JULIEN DUVIVIER BING CROSBY

"FLESH AND FANTASY" "EAST SIDE OF HEAVEN"

at the HYDE PARK THEATRE

CHRISTMAS PROGRAM STARTING FRIDAY, DEC. 24 J. Arthur Rank's HIGH AND DRY starring Paul Douglas. A delightful case of HIGH wit and DRY humor from the highlands rave-reviewed by the bl. Y. TIMES as Unbeatable comedy! It is downright intoxicating!" and rated current ond choice by TIME magazine: "Very possibly the funniest comedy to dote from the J. Arthur Ronk Ealing Studios." with

an ALEC GUINNESS favorite "A RUN FOR YOUR MONEY."

NEW YEAR'S PROGRAM STARTING FRIDAY, DEC. 31 BREAD, LOVE AND DREAMS — Gina Lollobrigido in her fist great acting role Vitoria De Sica in his usual brilliant acting style" LIFE magazine colls the film "Earthy, sexy, fiery, funny!" We soy, it is all of that ond more!

with

SO LITTLE TIME, starring Marius Goring of "Red Shoes" fame, ond the young Viennese star Mario Schnell. A poignant, absorbing romantic drama of the renunciation of on impossible love. December 10, 1954

THE CHICAGO MAROON

Page 7

Shakespearean production analyzed

The importance of relating the Shakespearean play to the Elizabethan playhouse and audience was emphasized last Friday in a lecture by Robert Speaight, English author, actor and producer.

Speaight, brought to the UC campus by the committee on social thought and the English

department, attacked those who maintain that the full genius of Shakespeare can be appreciated by severing his plays from their proper historical context.

Through his examination of the Shakespearean play as presented on the Elizabethan stage, Speaight was able to illustrate some of the shortcomings of modern Shakespearean presentations.

To appreciate Shakespeare as it

was originally presented, Speaight suggested that “we must imagine what poetry is like to people who don’t read.” The largely illiterate Elizabethan audience, however, was unable then to mentally spell out words. Consequently, the lyric quality of Shakespeare’s poetry was communicated to early audiences uncluttered by any subconscious references to written words.

Speaight suggested as working

Advertisement — Advertisement — Advertisement — Advertisement

On Campus WShuhnan”1

(Author of “Barofool Boy With Cheok" tic.) I

THE OPERATOR

On every American campus there are four standard fixtures: No. 1 — ivy; No. 2 — a statue of the founder; No. 3 — Philip Morris Cigarettes; No. 4 — The Operator.

The ivy is to prevent strangers from mistaking the college for a warehouse. The statue of the founder provides shade for necking when the weather is fine. The Philip Morris Cigarettes are an aid to concentration when you are'studious, an aid to sociability when you are sportive, and a source of smoke rings to impress new girls And The Operator is the man you can’t do without.

Well do I remember The Operator on my campus. He was a young man with a ready smile, a quick mind, fifteen complete changes of wardrobe, a six room apartment, a red convertible, and assorted stocks, bonds, securities, and second mortgages.

The Operator’s origins were a source of lively speculation. Some said he was left over from the old Capone gang. Some said he was Judge Crater. Some said he sprang from the brow of Zeus.

But, in fact, he was just an ordinary student — to begin with. In his first year he studied hard, took copious lecture notes, got good grades, and made a big reputation as a friend in need. He’d lend you money; he’d let you copy his lecture notes; he’d write themes for you; he’d sit up all night to help you cram for an exam. All of this was done with infinite good nature on his part, and no obligation on yours The first year, that is.

In the second year The Operator started to operate. He’d still let you copy his lecture notes — but it cost you a quarter. Sitting up to help you cram cost 50 cents an hour till midnight, 75 cents an hour afterwards. His prices for writing themes were based on a sliding scale —a dollar for a^C”, two for a “B”, three for an “A”. A “D” cost you nothing, and if you flunked, you got a dollar credit on the next theme he wrote for you His services expanded steadily. He added a line of cribs, for examinations. He booked bets on football games. He did a bit of bootlegging. He ran a date bureau. He rented cars, tuxedos, non-wilting boutonnieres. ,

But all of. these were really sidelines. His main line was lending money. At any hour of the day or night, for any amount from a dollar to a hundred, The Operator was always ready with a sympathetic ear and cash on the barrelhead. And he rarely charged more than 150 percent interest.

Usury*and sharp trading are practices not calculated to win affection. Nobody loved The Operator. But nobody did anything about it either Because undergraduates live in a perpetual state of need — need of money, need of lecture notes, need of romance, need of beer, need of something —and The Operator was the goose that laid the golden eggs and, therefore, safe.

Nor did The Operator seek affection. He just went his wellheeled way, serene and carefree No, not quite carefree. One thing troubled him: a fear that some day he might graduate. Graduation, leaving school, would mean the end of his empire. You can’t run a business like that from the outside; you must be right in the midst of things, spotting opportunities, anticipating needs, keeping your finger on the public pulse.

So he took great pains to stay in school, but never to graduate. This he accomplished by constantly shifting majors. He would come within a semester of getting a B.A. in sociology and then transfer to law. When he had nearly enough law credits, he’d switch to business administration. Then from business administration to psychology, from psychology to French, from French to history, and so on, meanwhile getting cultured as all get-out, rich as Croesus, and never accumulating quite enough credits for a degree.

Finally, of course, it caught up with him. There came a semester when no matter what he took, he had to wind up with some kind of a degree. He looked frantically through the class schedule trying to find some major he hadn’t tried yet. And he found one — physical education. So, sleek and pudgy though he was from high living, The Operator entered the department of physical ed.

It was a mistake. Among the people he had to wrestle and box with were some great hulking fellows who, like everybody else on campus, owed him money.

Their tiny foreheads creased with glee as they regarded The Operator’s trembling little body; their massive biceps swelled joyously; their flexors rippled with delight. Rumbling happily, they fell upon him and covered him with lumps, the smallest of which would have taken first prize in any lump contest you might name.

Confused and sick at heart, The Operator dragged his battered members home. He knew he had to get out of physical ed; his life was forfeit if he did not. So, unhappily, he transferred to some other course, and the following June, a beaten man in his cap and gown, received with lifeless hands a diploma and a bachelor of arts degree and shambled out into the great world.

I don’t know what happened to The Operator after graduation. It’s not a bad guess that he’s serving time in some pokey somewhere. Or maybe he was lucky and went into the advertising business. If so, he is surely a big man on Madison Avenue today.

But, as I say, I don’t know what happened to him. But this I do know: another Operator appeared on campus as soon as this one left, and he in turn was replaced by another, and the process goes on endlessly.

For as long as boy students like girl students better than going to class, as long as parents cling to the delusion that the allowance they had at college is sufficient for their children, as long as blood runs warm and cash runs short, there will be an Operator operating

on every campus everywhere.

©Mai Shulman. 1954

This column is brought to you by the makers of PHILIP MORRIS who think you would enjoy their cigarette.

rule for modern Shakespearean actors: “Keep to the meter,emphasize only the most important word. The lyric will do the rest.”

The graying actor, who has taken part in an Elizabethan production of Twelfth Night on the Notre Dame campus, said that all attempts to simplify the visual aspects of Shakespearean production are useless if the poetic aspects are neglected.

A study of the physical attributes of the Elizabethan theaters, Speaight said, give early presentations of Shakespeare an effectiveness often neglected today.

The shifting of the action from balcony to inner stage to outer stage provided dramatic changes of mood which compensated for the Elizabethan lack of scenery.

The appearance of the porter in Macbeth, for example, is a scene of which the humor is lost to modern viewers of Shakespeare. With Macduff pounding at the right door of the Elizabethan stage, the murdered Duncan lying behind the right door, and the bloody Macbeths retired behind the curtain to the inner stage, the bucolic

IT ISN'T CYBERNETICS

NOR EVEN DIANETICS

SEE THE CLASSIFIED ADS

 

ALEXANDER’S RESTAURANT

1137 E. 63 Street

H

I1UU

The Elizabethan stage as re-created from documents. The players acted upon the elevated outer stage (A), the inner stage (B), and the back balconies (C). The trap-door (D) was frequently used for entrance and exit. The only existing contemporary drawing of the Elizabethan stage shows spectators, not actors in the balcony above the stage.

3

3

MU 4-5735

3 3

face of the porter rising suddenly from a mid-stage trapdoor (a once frequently-used device ! must have provided an unexpected absurd relief from the scene’s dramatic tension, a relief which is lost today.

Since only one contemporary drawing of the Elizabethan stage exists, and that one made by a Dutchman from another Dutchman’s description, Speaight said that many theories of the uses of scenery and the back balcony over the stage have sprung up. Speaight attacked the theory that the back balcony was used for distinguished members of the audience and that the stage was filled with “mansions,” islands of scenery. Hearing from the overhead balcony would have been impossible. Viewing through the “mansions” on the elevated stage would have been impossible from the main floor of the theater.

Given the sparse stage directions and the even sparser certain knowledge of the Elizabethan theater, it is possible, Speaight said, to deduce where all the actions would have taken place and to determine their effectiveness.

Choose an Expert THOMPSON MOVERS

Local and Long Distance Moving CO 4-7600

the happiest music alive BUM

More than just a good place to eat We cater to parties and banquets 

Featuring the

DIXIE DUKES

When you pause...make it count...have a Coke

Saturday night

S

P

o

PF.

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY

The Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Chicago. Inc.

ft

G

£

DRINK

u

*Cok" is a registered trade-mark.

© 1954, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY

Free Parking across the street

AVALON COCKTAIL LOUNGE (FORMERLY

THE ST. MORITZ) 1629 E. 79 St.

RE 4-8729 Page 8

THE CHICAGO MAROON

December 10, 1954

UC’s Scandinavian club celebrates Christmas with a Santa Lucia pageant this' Sunday at 4 p.m. in the Ida Noyes theatre.

Traditionally, Sweden marks the Yuletide season with a festival of light. Lucia, the girl who tradition claims once escaped unscathed from a burning

pyre to which she had been doomed because she had become a Christian, heralds the approaching holiday with candle and songs.

Lucia contests are held in many Swedish communities and a beautiful girl is elected to wear the prized crown.

Christmas season brings various shopping problems

The Christmas season is the time for giving gifts. Unfortunately, Christmas time is also a season which finds most students’ pocketboods somewhat undernourished. However, this does not necessarily prevent the student from buying presents for his relatives and friends, because many stores in the University community offer merchandise of high quality at prices far below those of the downtown shopping center.

A popular gift for students is books. Because a student’s reading time is strictly budgeted, this gift must be one of interest and quality. Books to fit these qualifications may be found at any one of the myriad of bookstores in the University neighborhood. Sehneemann’s Red Door on 57th features an excellent stock of American and imported books which they gift-wrap charmingly, while Woodworth’s across the street,

 £ For an ideal gift a | twst it, | I TWl RL <1 3

BENDIT. 3

If you see flying saucers or hove any little space men running around your house this is just the thing for you. These beady-eyed space gremlins are really penny banks. Durable mat-glazed pottery with brass antenna. A gift*that makes giving fun. $250

THE MALIHINI

5481 Lake Park NO 7-4915

We carry an unusual line of gifts ond accessories in addition to our complete stock of Hermon Miller furniture.

S' 8
U S' s

Revolutionary new soft collar on Van Heusen Century shirts

COME SEE...

The Beautiful Selection of Bicycles Famous bicycles such as:

Raleigh Rudge Schwinn Dawes Hercules

*

¥ w
& y
w w

M

^ V

I.

M &

M 5

wont wrinkle ever!

No matter what you do, the one-piece collar of the Van Heusen Century Shirt is always fresh and wrinkle-free! And without starch or stays! S' Yet it’s so easy to launder— just iron the collar flat, flip it S’ and it folds perfectly (right on

the lold-line that’s woven in

Expert repairs on oil makes and models He service what we sell

JACKSON PARK BIKE SHOP

5333 S. LAKE PARK

DO 3-7524 NO 7-9860

S for keeps).. And because this collar’s woven on a curve to fit 5 your neckline, you can’t find | a belter fit! Better come in $ now while we’ve got a complete selection. They go like • ho‘cakes and you’re sure to S want several!

$995

GORGES

Mens Shop

1035 E. 55 St.

Cor. Gr^eowood Open Evenings Till Xmn

like the University Bookstore, features the latest in both fiction and non-fiction. For those students more economically minded there is Wilcox and Follett in “the loop” who feature a huge stock of used and new below-list-price volumes.

For those traditional ties, there are men’s shops such as George’s on 55th.

For gifts ranging from porcelain ash-trays to expensive cocktail sets, there are several gift shoppes in the area—the Domino at 5530 Harper specializing in hand-made items, both imported and those contributed by local tal BU 8-0876

At Your Most Glamorous Moment

The Perfect Gift

o Lout Je z J portrait stylist 1457 E. 57th St.

A

A

A

“Most Precious Surprise” HEADER’S “The Commas Drug Store”

61st and Ellis Opposite Burton Judson

ent, the Malahini at Lake Park and 54th featuring merchandise with a modern flair, the Koga at 1203 55th with a stock of various knick-knacks, the Studio at 1544 57th and the Japan Art Shop on 55th, both carrying Japanese items.

In a more expensive category, the several jewelry stores on 55th and 53rd have the gifts for “that very special person.” Betz Jewelry at 1523 53rd is one of these shops.

Toys Tor the kiddies are on sale at the Model Camera Shop on 55th, at the Jackson Park Bike Shop at Lake Park and 54th, and

See ‘Shopping,” page io December 10, 1954

THE CHICAGO MAROON

Page 9

Carillon rings in yuletide; bells world’s second largest

Strozier plays Santa

by Fred Karst

The proverbial “loud bells ringing wide and clear” will sound musical overtones to the UC Christmas season next week as three concerts are played on the Rockefeller chapel carillon.

The carillonneur, James R. Lawson, will present one concert at 4 p.m. Sunday and another at 4:30 p.m. Wednesday. He will also play next Friday before and after the Autumn convocation.

Lawson will play the carillon December 19 at 2:30 p.m. before the Christmas concert in Bond chapel. Kenneth Gronert, Lawson’s pupil and carillontur at the Lutheran Student chapel at the University of Illinois, will play Friday, December 24, at 4 p.m. before the Christmas eve

vesper chapel.

Tape playing WFMT

service in Rockefeller

recordings of Lawson’s will be broadcast over at 7:30 tonight and at

7:30 p.m., December 20.

The carillon in Rockefeller chapel, the second largest in the world, has 72 bells ranging from l O'i pounds to the Great Bourdon. weighing 36,926 pounds and having a diameter of almost ten feet. The carillon was installed in 1931, three years after the dedication of the chapel.

In order to make more music for carillon available, the chapel is currently undertaking the offset reproduction of carillon manuscripts. One of these is the "University of Chicago Suite," which was composed by Kamiel Lefevere, carillonneur of the Riverside church in New York City,

photo by Sygmund

With the carillon which he plays regularly is James K. Lawson, carilloneur at Rockefeller chapel.

Robert M. Strozier, Dean of Students, will be Santa Claus Saturday night for forty children, age 5-9, at a Christmas party at the Phi Gamma Delta house. Another party, for 13-16 year olds, will be held by Zeta Beta Tau and Sigma girls’ club at the fraternity’s chapter house tomorrow afternoon.

The party which stars Dean Strozier is sponsored by Phi Gamma Delta and two womens’ clubs, the Mortarboards and the Quadranglers, 80 of whom will be on hand to greet the kids. Since 1946, they have held such a party each year.

Gifts have been provided for the guests by merchants in the Hyde Park, Woodlawn, and Kenwood areas. The children are from the UC settlement house.

re

Santa Strozier at work.

UC community groups plan parties, services for Christmas

and dedicated to Lawson. The composition commemorates the 25th anniversary of the dedicado VMn°

Gourmet's Corner

Gifts

tion of the chapel, which w as celebrated last year.

The carillon is played from controls in a room about 18 stories up in the tower. The room, about 20 feet square, contains two control panels.

Each panel has keys that are struck with the carillonneur’s clenched hand and pedals that are struck with his feet. One of the control panels is used to strike the bells of the carillon, while the other, which is used for practice, makes a sound somewhat like an xylophone.

The major Christmas services sponsored by the campus religious groups include the Methodist Christmas communion in Bond chapel Sunday at 3 p.m., sponsored by the Methodist student union; a Christmas party to be given Thursday by the Calvert club; Christmas eve vespers in Rockefeller chapel, December 24 at 4:30 p.m., sponsored by the chapel staff; and holy communion sponsored by the Lutheran student parish in Thorndike Hilton chapel, December 25, at 10 a.m.

The Rockefeller vespers service is planned for students, faculty, staff and their families. Included will be the Christmas story from the Gospel, a worship service read by the three chapel ministers, and group carol singing.

Participating in the adoration at the manger will be faculty children, and people will be invited to bring their gifts for the University settlement (toys, food or money) up into the chancel for

Stationery

Stuff Their Stockings With All Sorts of Mod Things From The Domino

Open Every Eve. until Christmas 10 a.m. >10 p.m.

presentation before the manger scene.

At the churches in the campus area a variety of services will be presented. A solemn midnight mass will be celebrated on Christmas eve with singing by the boy’s choir at St. Thomas the Apostle church (55th and Kimbark). The 12 o’clock high mass on Christmas day will include singing by the children’s choir.

The First Presbyterian church at Kimbark and 64th will hold a candlelight service at 11:15 p.m. December 24, composed of poetry, carols and a meditation. At the 11 a.m. Sunday service December 19, special Christmas music will be featured.

Also holding a candle-light service on December 24, at 8 p.m. is the United Church of Hyde Park at 53rd and Blackstone. On Sunday, December 19, its intermediate department will present Dickens’ "A Christmas Carol" at 7:30 p.m.

The First Unitarian church, 1174 East 57th, will hold a Christmas Sunday service on December 26 at 11 a'.m.

A pageant with the school children and choir will make up the regular Christmas program held by the First Baptist church, 935 East 50th, on December 19 at 5 p.m. A Christmas eve service will be presented at 7:30 p.m.

The Augustana Lutheran church at 5400 Kimbark will hold a carol service December 12 at 7 p.m., and a midnight service on Christmas eve Christmas is icumen in, Need one go cuccu? Stop the rush and shop in peace

And save your money too!

Just for

Miriam’s

Shopping

gives 22 per

7:

you .

Service

cent

discount to University of Chicago Students

on all kinds of top-quolity merchandise Everything you need for Christmas.

See our catalogues in the Student Activities Center— Basement of Reynolds Club or browse through our complete catalogues ot our new office.

1340 East 55th Street

It's the easy way to shop. Order from us. We pick up and deliver to you.

And besides your peace of mind you save twenty-two per cent.

Miriam’s

Shopping Service

1340 East 55th Street

HY 3-4970

Howes: 9.5 — Mondoy-Soturday Me 10

THE CHICAGO MAROON

December 10, 1954

Creswell's singing not folk' Playwrights presenting satire on traders rise

It is not absolutely necessary for a folk singer to be “authentic,” but if she isn’t she must have something else to commend her. This is not the case with Grace Creswell, who presented a concert of “folk songs from the southern Appalachians” in Mandel hall last Friday.

She tried hard to create an “authentic” impression by being announced by a Nashville businessman with a heavy Southern accent, who announced the numbers with all manner of balyhoo about how they were sung in her home and family, etc., etc. It was not convincing. Unsophisticated in the ways of folk music as the audience Obviously was, it began to realize this was being laid on a bit thick.

Unfortunately the accent itself was wrong. It was a Southern big-city accent, not a Tennessee mountain drawl. The greater part of the songs were not authentic, about two-thirds of them being “old hacks” of folk music—few of which are “preserved in the southern Appalachians” in the version in

Campus Sinfonietta gives annual Christmas concert

The UC Collegiate Sinfonietta is presenting its second annual Christinas concert this Sunday at 4 p.m. in Mandel hall.

The program will feature familiar numbers as well as several recently discovered works for chamber orchestra and soloists.

Among the better known compositions to be heard are

Corelli’s “Concerto Grosso No. 2” and Handel’s “Concerto Grosso No. 4.” June Blume will be the soloist in the “Suite for Flute and Strings” by Telemann, while Burton Fine will play the “Violin Concerto No. 2” by Vivaldi. Heard for the first time will be a sinfonia by Manfredini and two German Christmas arias by the comparatively unknown baroque masters Beyer and Tunder. Norma Williams, soprano, will be the singer.

Admission to concert is free.

Shopping

(from page 8)

the Ace Cycle Shop at 819 55th. The last two stores specialize in bicycles and tricycles, while the Model Camera is a hobby shop and camera store combined.

For Christmas cards, try the Bookstore for a fine assortment and the Acasa Bookstore for cards that are conventional, contemporary, imported, and foreign language.

The Album, 1171 55th. and Louise Barker (she captures your personality as well as your person), is suggesting a picture of yourself to send to family and friends.

Reader’s Drug Store is featuring a wide line of perfumes and personal articles, while Miriam’s Shopping Service, whose catalogues are available in the Student Service Center, gives a 22 per cent discount on many lines of merchandise. M a n y of the

See ‘Shopping,’ page 13

Nick Bova — Florist 5239 Harper Ave. Ml 3-4226

STUDENT DISCOUNT DELIVERY SERVICE

PIZZERIA

1520 E. 55th St.

• Bar-be-cue ribs

• Bar-be-cue chicken

Delivery Anywhere

FA 4-5525

which she sang them, and several of which are modern “written” folk songs. It is highly probable Miss Creswell got most of her repertoire off records.

Her singing style, too, was anything but “folk.” With a trained voice generally fitting a danceband singer, she tried to imitate Jo Stafford in her vocal styling.

Now Miss Stafford, also from Tennessee, sings folk songs quite tolerably, since she has that “something else” to replace “folk” singing style. But Miss Cres Cap and Gown gives plans

Mike Rogers, editor-in-chief of the 1955 Cap and Gown, announced Monday that contracts for engraving and printing of the ’55 yearbook have been completed with Jahn and Ollier engraving company of Chicago and their affiliate, Keystone printing company of Libertyville, Illinois.

The book will sell for a pre-publication price of $4 and is tentatively expected to appear on campus about June 1.

Staff photographers have covered the important events of the autumn quarter for the activities section, while on November 23, professionals took group pictures throughout the dormitories.

"“Disc

1369 E. 57th St.

Record

of the week

Purcell

More Catches and Glees Allegro 3046 $2.95

What’s the word?

Speechless?

See the Classified Ads

public stenographer available

5646 $. Harper Ave. (37)

at the HYDE PARK LETTER SHOP

HYde Park 3-5343

well’s voice is not like Jo’s; and her mimicry, compounded by her singing of several Stafford folk songs in a duplicate style, became almost pathetic.

Miss Creswell accompanied herself on the autoharp, which is anything but an Appalachian folk instrument' and has little to commend it beside its extreme easiness to play.

She revised the tunes of several of the songs, losing much of their beauty in the process, and making all her songs sound alike. This cannot be accounted for by differences of version, for she did this even to the modern written songs, such as “I Wonder as I Wander,” of which no differences of version exist since they have been transmit The AMERICAN OPERA CO. presents

RIGOLETTO

by Verdi — in Italian

Featuring SHEILA MEYERS, 12year-old Soprano, plus full cost, chorus and orchestra.

EDWARD EARLY, Conductor

INTERNATIONAL HOUSE

Saturday, Dec. 11 — 8:15 P.M. Tickets: $1.50, $2, $2.50, $3

Playwrights Theatre Club

1205 N. Dearborn

Final Performance Tonight 7:30 SHAKUNTALA

Opening Wed., Dec. 15

An Original

THE RAZOR SHARP SATIRE

RICH BUT HAPPY

by THEODORE HOFFMAN

Tues, thru Sat., 8:30

Sundays, 7:30 For Phone Resv. and Memberships Coll WHitehall 3-2272

Atoms in the Family

By LAURA FERMI

A Wife's-Eye View of the Birth of the Atomic Age

”... a pleasure from beginning to end, and a historical document of much value." — ROBERT * COUGHLAN, Chicago Sun-Times.

“Mrs. Fermi is one of the most engaging biographers who ever described the life of a great scientist."—Time.

" communicates the excited atmosphere in which Fermi worked."—LEWIS GANNET, New York Herald Tribune.

" an engaging book."—ADLAI

E. STEVENSON.

"Gay anecdotes and the twinklingeye treatment bubble all through "—JOHN BARKHAM.

At all bookstores $4.00

Th E UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO PRESS

Playwrights theatre will put on a new comedy satire, “Rich But Happy” by Theodore Hoffman, starting Wednesday. The play concerns the rise of a young man from poverty to riches through black market trading.

Hoffman’s experience includes directing, journalism, and

lecturing. His first-hand observations of post-war Europe were a basis for his play.

“Rich But Happy” will run for two weeks. Reservations

ted only by book and record.

Now Burl Ives revised and simplified his songs, too, and got away with it since he was a pioneer in a period where most people were uninitiated to folk music. Today, near the height of a wave of folk music enthusiasm, this is inexcusable.

Prentiss Choate

may be made by phoning WHitehall 3-2272. The play is directed by David Shepherd and the cast includes Vernon Schwartz, Edward Asner, Elaine May, Jim Cordes, Tom Erhart, Antony Holland. Bob Ball. Mae Munro and Jean Arnold International House Movies

| East Lounge Mon. A Thurs. Eves, at 7:00 A 9:00 P.M. =

= Monday—Dec. 13, 35c—Christmas Program (Three shorts* Star in the Night

= Christmas through the Ages

= The Guest (based on a story by Leo Tolstoy) =

= Thursday—Dec. 16, 35c—Never Give a Sucker an Even Break

I (W. c. Fields) I

= Thursday—Dec. 23, 35c—Scrooge—(based on A Christmas Carol = = by Charles Dickens) =

 

IX'cccc'c V A

| SUPPLIES ;

t When you're thinking of buying that camera or electric train — think of a

| MODEL CAMERA SHOP I Hyde Park's most complete photo and hobby shop * y NSA Discounts £

y Authorized dealer for:

I LEICA *

£ ROLLEIFLEX J

3 POLAROID J

I BOLEX J

£ *

XMAS SPECIALS

£ 66.50 Groflex Ciro 35 range finder capiero, with case and flash, y only 49.95 £

y 44.50 Skan 35mm slide projector. 200 watt. Air cooled.27.95 A

& Flash camera outfits from 9.45

y View master reels A

y Electric trains and accessories — model planes — boats — cars £

y Cameras from 2.95 up — Gifts at all prices

y 1329 East 55 Street HY 3-9259 

y A

 

SCHMEMAWS 0 0 H Red Door Book Shop | o 1328 EAST 57th STREET NOrmal 7-6111 0

o The Complete Book Shop 3 o 0 O 0 0 0 H "BOOKCELLAR TO THE

H UNIVERSITY COMMUNITY" b December 10, 1954

Camera contest cancelled due to lack of entries

The Camera club contest, scheduled for December l,was cancelled because of an insufficient number of entries.

According to G. M. Mauterer, president of the group, the reason for lack of participation was inadequate darkroom facilities.

The 40-member Camera club will sponsor the work of several photographers in the Art fair this March. An exhibit during Alumni week and a spring contest are also planned.

Movie version of ‘Aida’ makes midwest premier Dec. 25

“Aida,” Verdi’s dramatic opera of romance along the Nile, is now a motion picture, featuring Gino Bechi, Renata Tebaldi, Ebe Stignani and Guiseppe Campora.

Having its midwest premiere showing at the World Playhouse, starting Christmas Day, the opera-film is being shown through the presentation of the concert impressario S. Hurok.

Sophia Loren, an 18-year old find, plays the part of “Aida,” the Ethiopian princess enslaved by a Pharoah kingdom, but who wins the love of a war Present chamber works

Winding up perhaps their most successful series of programs to date, the UC Musical society presents its last concert of the fall quarter this Sunday in Ida Noyes library, featuring works by Haydn, Handel, Schubert, Respighi, Smith and Mozart.

• Designed to present chamber works in a comparatively informal atmosphere, this year’s recitals have been marked by excellent attendance and a consistently high level of performance of interesting and little-heard music.

Sunday’s program begins at 8 p.m.; admission is without charge.

^ IV W w W W W W W W W W^

UNIVERSITY BARBER SHOP

WISHES ALL STUDENTS Merry Christmas and a Happv New Year Fine hoircdfting ... Two barbers working H,OY C. ARNOLD, Proprietor

^y^v^t^t ^t^t at^t^t^fat MERRY CHRISTMAS

AS ONLY YOU CAN SAY IT

Your Portrait

ring prince.

There will be early morning shows in addition to the evening performance of “Aida” at the World Playhouse.

Bell, Kinnell Io read their own poetry at University college

Charles G. Bell, professor of humanities, and Galway Kinnell will each read his own poetry Friday at University college, 19 South La Salle, at 8 p.m.

Bell will read from his forthcoming book Delta Return, to be published in 1956 by the Indiana University press..Many of Bell’s poems which he will read have appeared in Harper’s and the Chicago Review.

Kinnell’s poem, although not compiled, have appeared in several magazines, including the New Yorker.

UT features short plays,

scenes in winter production

University Theatre is now in rehearsal for its new show for January. The production, employing three directors and a cast of 30, is entitled Drama in Miniature. The show features short plays and scenes of Shakespeare, Shaw, Molnar, Lardner, Inge and Williams.

Performance dates are January 14, 15 and 16 in the Reyn olds club area theatre. The

program is designed to present little known works of famous playwrights. Omar Shapli is directing the seldom-seen “Bolshevik Empress” by George Bernard Shaw. The cast includes Carol Herning, Jon Jackson and Shelby Kavin. Eddie Simmons is staging three one-sets by Tennessee Williams, Ring Lardner, and William Inge. Marvin Phillips, director of UT, will produce the show and direct short plays of Molnar and Wood, and a Shakespearean dance-drama.

William Zavis as master of ceremonies will unify the entire production. Featured in the Shakespearean dance-drama will be Maggie Nash, Jim Sherwood and Louis Smith.

GRADUATES

Caps and Gowns Available at All Times for Your Convenience Sf/l C t^^U/H photographers

KOGA GIFT SHOP

DOMESTIC AVD IMPORTED

Costume Jewelry - Christmos Cords - Toys - Gifts for oil occasions. Open every day.

1203 E 55th Street MV 4-6856

MIDWAY 3-4433

1711 EAST 55th STREET

In The Spirit of Christmas

she’ll wonder how you knew

A favorite of her* .. and you'll love it on her.

Give her

• TABU Christmas.

READER'S "The Cempus Drug Mere'’

61 st and Ellis Opposite Burton Judson

The Perfume from $2.74

The Cologne from >2.23

trie* th* I##

f TRUTH IS ONE, by Formon & Gammon 

f The concept of spiritual unity ond the common hopes

g ond oims of believers in oil of the world's great living

f religions, is beautifully presented in 250 dramatic

£ photographs with accompanying text.

? JESUS AND HIS TIMES, by Doniei-Rops 

f A magnificent recreation of the life of Christ as evi$5.00 ’

$5.00

m denced in the New Testament, with a rich history of

? Biblical times.

THE

f THE

r THE

OLD TESTAMENT AND THE FINE ARTS *

Full poge reproductions of 100 pointings, 63 stories, f

244 poems and 77 hyms and chorales, showing the Old Testament inspiration of great

musicions.

REVISED STANDARD VERSION OF

The newest tronslotion of the Bible,

writers, ortists ond

THE BIBLE

following os closely

os possible the originol text. In severe) bindings: blue cloth, $3.25; moroon buckram, $6.00; genuine leather, $10.00.

PRAYERS OF PETER MARSHALL 

All of the proyers of Peter Marshall that hove been preserved, full of the wisdom and warmth of the mon whose spirit hos touched the heart and soul of America.

University of Chicago

Bookstore

5802 Ellis Avenue

ITALIAN FIESTA PIZZERIA

1427 E. 67th MU 4 S

Large $2 Special Pizza ’A Sausage ’/4 Anchovy ¥4 Pepper ¥4 Mushroom

FREE DELIVERY TO U. of C. STUDENTS On orders over $2

Quick Courteous Service

TABLE SERVICE

DELIVERY SERVICE

'Harvey'

(from page 1) greeted by applause from the more than 100 spectators.

On a motion by'Alderman Kenneth Campbel), 20th ward, the committee voted unanimously to take it under advisement with cochairmen Murphy to call a committee meeting within ten days.

Harvey showed still more pictures and an eleven-minute color movie showing a quick runthrough of the area. One of the stills he showed pictured the inside of a three-room unfurnished apartment renting at $51 a month. “There are a lot of people who would call that heaven,” he said. “There isn’t a crack in the ceilings or walls or on the floors.” He pointed out that a number of old frame houses are not scheduled to be torn down while some good brick ones are.

Weiner statue seen at 'Messiah'

Egon Weiner, noted sculptor who came to Chicago from Vienna in 1938. has loaned his heroic statue of Christ, “Ecce Homo.” to Rockefeller chapel. The statue was placed in the upper west transept of the chapel last week in time to be seen by the two thousand people who came to hear Handel’s Messiah.

Weiner teaches sculpture at the Chicago Art institute. This work was previously exhibited at the institute and also at the Sheil school. Weiner has had many oneman shows of his work in Chicago, New York, Paris and California. He has won many prizes for his work in this country and abroad. He spent last summer doing sculpture for outdoor use in Sweden and Norway.

Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada

1 North La Salle St. Chicago 2, Illinois

RALPH J. WOOD, Jr., '48 FR 2-2390 • GA 2-5273

For Dependable

Insurance Counseling Business Insurance Estate Planning Lite Insurance Annuities December 10, 1954

Page 12

THE CHICAGO MAROON

Coming Campus Events

Classified Ads

Friday, December 10

Romance Language Club's annual Christmas program: Music, songs, slides, Ida Noyes library, 3 p.m. 25 cents for non-members.

Glee club annual Christmas concert. Bond chopel, 8 p.m.

Poetry reading, University college and Poetry Magazine, 19 S. La Salle, 8 p.m. Readers: Charles Bell, professor of humanities, and Galway Cainnell, director of liberal arts at University college. Admission, $1.50.

Saturday, December 11

Chamber music concert, UC musical society, Denis Cowan, tenor. Ido Noyes library, 8 p.m. No admission.

Episcopal services, lost of the quarter. Bond chapel, 8:30 a m., followed by breakfast in Swift Hall. Canterbury does not re-meet until January 1 1.

Sunday, December 12

Convocation service. Rockefeller chapel, 11 a m. Sermon on "Truth ond Life/' John B. Thompson, dean of the chopel. Worship conducted by Wallace W. Robbins, president of Meadville.

Boch Singers Christmos rec Htof, Bond chapel, 4 p.m., free.

Scondanovion club Christmos party, Ida Noyes theater, Santa Lucia pogeont, 75 cents.

It’s a Trap

Don’t Hesitate!

Young Sociolist league, discussion of the "third comp," Ida Noyes, 4:30 p.m.

Channing club, illustrated lecture by Dr. John E. Hayward, on "The religious dimnesions of art." Supper at 6:30, meeting at 7:30 p.m.

Film, "Of Mice and Men" (US), B-J council, Judson lounge, 7 and 9 p.m. Admission 25 cents.

SRP caucus,, Ida Noyes east lounge, 7:45 p.m.

Monday, December 13

Films, "Stars in the Night" and

(US), International house, 7 and 9 p.m.

Tuesday, December 14

Archaelogy club, Ida Noyes, 8 p.m.

Klaus Baer speaks on cavations in Egypt.

English country dancing. Cloister club, 8-10

recent ex Ida Noyes p.m. Wear

rubber-soled shoes. Instruction for beginners.

Science Fiction club meeting, 7:30 p.m., Ida Noyes library. "Born of Mon and Woman," also "Science Fiction Bargain Basement."

Friday, December 17

Convocation, Rockefeller chapel, 3 p.m. Chancellor Lawrence A. Kimpton, presiding. Address: "Scientific Education," by Willard F. Libby, Commissioner of AEC.

Eye Examinations

Visual Training

Dr. Kurt Rosenbaum

Personal

Entertaining, reasonaoly handsome male wanted to date attractive co-ed (size 9). Even Fijis acceptable. Duchess, DR 3-4819.

Rack your brain. Word-Trap, the newest and best party game for the linguistic elite. Don’t vacillate. Rush to the University Bookstore and get a copy today. Only $1.50. Or play it cagey and come in for a free trial round.

Riders wanted

Riders wanted to New York. Leave Friday evening, December 17. Return January 2 or 3. $25 round trip. Call Maury Mandel, Extension 1003.

Riders to share driving and expenses to Los Angeles. Oldsmobile convertible. Leaving January 8. MU 4-2803.

Drive a new car home for the holidays. All gas paid on most trips. Cars to Florida free. AAA Driveaway Inc. 343 South Dearborn, WE 9-2364.

NYC, December 16, stopping overnight enroute. Fare $14 round trip. Dan or Janet Calhoun, PL 2-0809.

2 Riders wanted to Boston (or New York) one way. who will share driving expenses Leave 17th or 18th. Call Int. House 758. John M. Mihaljan.

Rider willing to share expenses and driving for trip to Philadelphia on December 16. Contact Dorfner, 5220 Drexel, Apt. 306 after 5.

Salt Lake City or points on route (US 30). Leaving December 18. returning by January 3. Round trip or one way. Contact Polly Bartholomew, Midway 3-0800, Ext. 1040.

Riders wanted — leaving for the great Southwest December 17. Cali Charles Baumbach, DO 3-8583, 10:30 p m.-midnight.

Ride wanted

Ride wanted to New York or New England about December 17. Share driving and expenses. Leave message at Ext. 2881 for Eli Comay.

Ride to and from Denver for the Christmas holidays. Two young men will share driving and expenses. Phone Gary Stoll or Mike Mandell by Monday. MI 3-6000.

Wanted

Tape recorder wanted. Any condition.

Contact George Fuller, PL 2-1390.

Apartment to share

During Christmas interim. $25. 3 rooms and bath. Back norch. utilities and phone included. MU 4-2650.

One or two young ladies to share 5room. 2-bath furnished apartment. Private bath and closet. Reasonable rates. Phone MU 4-4098.

Female student to share apartment. Call FA 4-5942 after 6.

For rent

Rooms available near campus. AKK medical fraternity. 5725 Woodlawn. PL 2-9250. Kitchen and house privileges.

Unfurnished anartments. three and four rooms. $70 up Free utilities and parking. Near University of Chicago. Janitor. 959 E. 54th Place, or call DO 3-4351.

6051 Kimbark. Mrs. Norris. One-room kitchenette, running water, gas range, refrigerator. $8 a week. Call SA 1-8041 or DO 3-9511 afternoons.

Room for two men. Newly decorated, asphalt tile, linens, inexpensive meals served in house. Call Gene Terry, PL 2-9477. .

Wanted: Female to share 314-roam apartment. 49th and Drexel. Call KE 8-2786, after 6 p m.

Field Engineer. 27. SAE. BA. DPU. ’51. other arts and apnlted sciences. U of Marburg. Purdue. Chicago Tech. Travel weekdays. Want to share apartment in campus or Hyde Park area. Prefer same under 30 or grad student or mature upperclass undergrad. Not prone to high, expensive living and appreciative of the capitalistic system and solid geometric curve, occunancv after first of year. Call HA 1-1050 or write 1200 W. Fulton Market. Weaver.

For sale

House for sale* Chatam. Deluxe 14-yearold. 7-room colonial. Three bedrooms and two full baths on second floor. Finished recreation room with powder room. Den and powder room on first floor. Screened porch. Priced to sell Owner transferred to Wisconsin, ar 4-9758.

Simmons double Hollywood bed, complete with modern bookcase type headboard. Nearly new. $24; also spacious enamel kitchen cabinet. Call DO 3-0331.

Must sell! Steel-edged skis. Handmade ski boots. Ski pants. Cheap. PL 2-9642. Apt. 205. Late evenings.

French I.inguaphone. Will sell, or trade for Spanish. IR 8-0778.

New Grommes 10 watt amplifier. High fidelity. $35. Howard FM tuner, best offer. Columbia 3-speed turntable, $7 50 Day, CA 5-3343. Evenings, MI 3-8216^ Williams.

Mahogany drop leaf table. Almost new. Mahogany bookcase. Table lamp Incidental items. All very reasonable. HY 3-0480. evenings.

Nesco Electric Roaster and cabinet. Twenty-quart capacity. $25. DO 3-5560.

Accordion, 80 bass, Italian, like new. Evenings MI 3-7939.

Bicycler American, decent condition $10. MU 4-5506. Ray.

Services

Dressmaking. Alterations. Quick Service. FA 4-7646. Mornings or evenings

Typing done. Term papers and theses. Call KE 6-8689. Mrs. Stanley Bohn

Lost

Five white shirts initialed JCH-43. It found, call BU 8-9500,.Miriam.

Pair of men’s gloves. Brown, fur lined, hand stitched. Sentimental value. Reward. Call Andy Thomas. 541 B J.

optometrist

Help wanted

See the Classified Ads

1132 E. 55th Street

HYde Park 3-8372

Male or female for new University of Chicago project in loop. Act as messenger for main office, other offices, and campus. Full-time,hours somewhat flexible. Apply personnel office, 956 E. 58th Street.

Userf^ New

Does you typewriter need to be cleaned

Have it repaired over the Christmas interim.

Help Wanted

TEXTBOOKS

Special Holiday discount

for all students

If you bring in this ad an additional 5% discount.

We guarantee all work for a year

QUIXOTE, Anglo-American short story quarterly published in England wants new writers.

cism. Write to Quixote — Felixstow — Suffolk, England.

10%-50% Discount

nww as

//HT Fifty-Seventh at Kenwood

America's Largest Educational Book House

Invites You to Come in and Browse

Bourgeaus

1202 IL 55th SG

All Fields of Learning are Represented in 6

Floors of Books — 6 Million in Number, New

and Used. Get a Student Discount Card and

HY 3-7912

M

Use it for Savings on All New Books

SAVE TIME — SAVE MONEY

N & R Bonded Movers

 

WE BUY BOOKS

A SNACK

A LUNCH

YEAR ROUND

New ond Used Furniture

Season’

from

Ml 3-4196 1510 E. 55th

Your Bicycle Headquarters

A MEAL

Our NEW General College Catalog 1954, t*

The College

LAUNDERETTE

1449 East 57th St MU 4-9236

(greetings

ACE CYCLE SHOP

On a freshly steamed bun, we tenderly place the puppy dog — not a wiener, but £ a VIENNA puppy dog — red hot — pure * beef — accompanied by da 8 mustard, relish, onions and E hot pepper, complete with 8 a generous portion of our MH or E famous french fried potatoes which are often imitated but never excelled. Our Z NEDLOG orange and root beer is unequaled J and no extra, charge is made for carry- 5 out containers. 

Pick It Up at Mar eon Office 5706 So. University Office

WILCOX & FOLLETT CO.

PUPPY TOWN!

open until 1 A.M. £

13 51 E. 5 5th Street DO 3-9366 Z

Order* over $1.00 delivered E

1247 S. WABASH Ave. at 13th St.

Phone HA 7-2840 Free Parking

 December 10, 1954

THE CHICAGO MAROON

Page 13

Series planned

Religion and politics are the subjects of the two Walgreen Lecture series scheduleci for the winter quarter.

Robert A. Dahl, associate professor of political science, Yale University, will discuss “Some unsolved problems in the theory of democratic politics,” in a series of six lectures.

“The Catholic Church in America” will be the subject of John Tracy Ellis, professor of church history at the Catholic University of America and Secretary of the American Catholic Historical Association. He will deliver a series of four lectures on the subject.

This lecture series is the second of three Walgreen lectures devoted to religion in America, the general subject which the Walgreen foundation is considering this year.

All lectures are scheduled for Social Science 122. Dahl will speak January 10. 12, 14, 17, 19, and 21. Ellis will give his series of lectures January 24, 25, 27, and 28.

Dirty windows

(from page 1)

Duke of Windsor, in 1924, was shown the Commons by Ernest De Witt Burton, third president of the University. The Duke commented that the resemblance to the Magdalen tower at Oxford, of which the Mitchell tower group is a prototype, was quite strong with the exception of the wellcleaned windows in the Commons.

Directory out at thirty-five cents

A greater profit is expected from the sales of this year’s SG published Student Directory, out yesterday, reported Bob Heavilin, chairman of the student needs committee of Student Government. The directory sells for its regular price of 35 cents.

CARON

Legend claims this the reason for their never being washed since.

On returning from his recent European trip Chancellor Kimpton quoted someone at Oxford as saying that “We don’t wash windows, but we haven’t thought of it as a tradition We just don’t get around to it.”

Another tale about the windows tells of the spelling out of the

Heavilin admitted that his ov the directory through an oversight.

While the cost of this year’s directory remained approximately the same as last year’s, an additional 250 copies have been printed for sale, due to the increase in UC student enrollment.

word “Chicago on the dusty

name had been omitted from

north wall windows. This was supposedly done by a group of inebriated athletes reveling in their Western conference championship in the 1920’s.

An additional $20 worth of ads over last year’s book and a saving of that amount again in the cost of drawing up the ads will also contribute to the expected revenue increase. Ads were accepted only from non-discriminatory merchants and businessmen.

SG may channel the money into foreign exchange programs.

The 2,000 copies of the directory were printed by University Press. A bid from the Reilly company, printers of the SG Student Handbook was not granted. Although they would have put the book out two weeks earlier, the time saving would have cost an additional $250.

As pervading as the

spirit oj Lhristmas

Night

Extract HGw 125. 145.

Lotion HO &

It KAI) ER'S ‘‘The Campus Drug Store** 61st and Ellis Opposite Burton Judson

University college courses offered now on campus

Basic program courses in the Liberal Education for Adults program of University college downtown are being offered for the first time on the University quadrangles.

The scheduling of classes on the UC campus is in response to the many requests by Hyde Park area residents who wanted to take classes but were unable to make the frequent trips to the loop center, according to Margaret Madden of University college’s downtown

office.

The campus section of the basic program will meet once a week, from 6:30 to 9:45 p.m. on Tuesdays.

The program will offer four years of general .education for adults, and will provide participants an opportunity to discuss the issues of philosophy, science,

politics and poetry in small roundtable classes. A similar program will be offered at the downtown branch of University college.

Registration for the winter quarter 1955 begins December 16 and ends December 30. Classes begin January 3. There are no formal educational requirements for admission, and 22 is the minimum age. Further information is available at University college, 19 S. La Salle, DE 2-7245.

Shopping

(from page 10)

stores listed here give the NSA discount of from 5 to 20 per cent. A complete list of these stores is also available at the Student Service Center.

For the music lover, The Disc at 1379 57th and the Bookstore have a wide range of LP records. The Disc has a wide variety of off-brand labels, also. For that Hi-Fi set to go along with those records, try Lund Co., on 53rd and Blackstone.

Years ago, when Reader’s Drug Store and everyone else were years younger, there used to be a perfume counter just by the pharmacy’s door. It was one of the B-J customs to lure an unsuspecting victim itno bending over to look at the fountain pen display featured immediately below, and then spray him liberally with sample perfume kept on the top of the counter. Have' you ever

"Enjoy Our Fine Continental Cuisine in Relaxed Atmosphere*’

CONTINENTAL GOURMET RESTAURANT

Open Doily (except Mondays) from 4:30 - 10:00 Sundays — 12 Noon - 10 P.M.

150ft E. 57th Street Phone PLaza 2*9355

smelled Tabu in large quantities?

Anyway, apart from Tabu, Reader’s carries these days all kinds of perfumes, including Lucien Le Long, Elizabeth Arden, Guverlain, and Caron.

Reader’s is still located on the corner of Ellis and 61st.

WINS

KING SIZE TOO!

’ V 0 R

R, J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO., WINSTON-SALEM, R C

I

New filter cigarette brings flavor back to filter smoking!

Winston tastes good— like a cigarette should!

 Now there’s a filter smoke college men and women can really enjoy! It’s Winston, the new, king-size, filter cigarette with real flavor—full, rich, tobacco flavor!

You’re bound to enjoy Winston’s finer flavor. And you’re sure to appreciate Winston’s finer filter. This exclusive filter is unique, different, truly superior! It works so effectively—yet doesn’t “thin the taste. Winstons are kingsize for extra filtering action. Easy-drawing, too—there’s no effort to puff!

Try a pack of Winstons—the filter cigarette that brings flavor back to filter smoking!

FINER FILTER!

FINER FLAVOR!

WINSTON... the easy-drawing filter cigarette! Page 14

THE CHICAGO MAROON

December 10, 1954

Swimmers squeak by Wright JC

winning final, 400 yard relay

Last Friday’s varsity swim meet against Wright Junior college resembled part of a Frank Merriwell story; only in the final minute did the the UC swimmers come from behind heroically to win by four points, 44-40.

Instead of a one-man triumph, this final event created a quartet of heroes. Don Mc Vickers, Bill Whitney, Mike Mandell and Paul Sellin all helped win the 400 yard relay with a

The winningest team so far this year poses for their portrait. Only Wheaton beat them in fen weeks of collegiate running*. And in an extra week of open meets they won their own Track Club five-mile open, and placed just behind the New York Athletic Club in the National A AU 10,000 meter cross country championships in Philadelphia. Last Sunday they celebrated their season with spaghetti at exrunner Ken Brown’s home. They are, left to right, front to back: Tinkie Keynes, Walt Deike, Paul Baptist, Jim Flynn, Lowel Hawkinson; Coach Ted Haydon, Sam Greenlee, Dan Trifone, John Smothers, Chuck Rhyne, Ted Fishman, Art Omohundro.

combined time of 4:04.

The preceding nine events had left Chicago behind, 37-40, and only team depth brought the Maroons that close. Of twentyone swimmers competing for Coach William Moyle, ten scored valuable points.

After Wright had opened the meet by winning the 300-yard medley relay, Mandell got five points by winning the 200-yard swim with 2:36.5. Mc Vickers and Whitney then got second and third in the 60-yard swim, Sellin picked up second in the 120-yard individual medley, and Frank Chilton and Bob Herndon placed second and third in fancy diving to make the Maroon total 16 points.

Sellin then won the 60-yard freestyle with a time of :58, Bob Geidt and Mandell got first and second

in the 200 yard backstroke, Geidt clocking 2:38.4, Lance Felker and Roland Von Hentig placed second and third in the 200-yard breast stroke, and Doug Mauer and Bob Tres got like places in the 44b yard swim to set the stage for the final relay •♦. .♦• ••♦ ••• .♦. •♦• ♦*♦ •*♦ •*• ♦'• ••• ••♦ •*• ♦*♦♦** •*• ♦*♦ %• ♦*

Merry Christmas from

Mitzie ’

S Flower Shop

at two convenient stores

Table tennis to Vincent

Down one game and trailing

TONE-ARM TEDDY WAS A

heedle hoodpik

1225 E. 63rd St. 1301 E. 55th St.

£ HY 3-5353 Ml 3-1020

♦ ' Send Flowers at Christmas Time

Y 10% and 20% student discount

in the second, Roy Lavik of the Vincent Demons came from behind to defeat Lenny Lyons 19-21, 21-19, 21-15, to clinch the 1954 College House Table Tennis Championship for Vincent. Prior to Lavik’s match, the Vincentites had racked up a 4-0 lead, as player-coach Dave Freifelder downed Coulter’s Rob Kirby 21-7. 21-2, in the first singles of the Coulter- Vincent playoff for the championship. Freifelder then joined Kendon Smith to upend the Coulter first doubles team of Kirby and Rennert 21-14, 21-7.

Gordon’s Sport Shop

Tennis Balls, $6.00 a dozen Badminton ond Squash

5757 Cottage Grove

He had a 50 watt amplifier . • • two speakers in every room but still his sound wasn’t up to snuff. Why?? He was using a hi-fi turntable with a nofi needle. But Teddy learned at last. He sent his old needle to Transcriber and had us custom re-tip it with genuine diamond.

If you are using anything but a diamond — or a diamond more than 12 months old — why not do the same. Remove your needle from its cartridge*, scotch tape it to a piece of cardboard and mail to Transcriber. Our experts will straighten and strengthen the shank re-tip it with a new guaranteed diamond. A real bargain at only $ 10.50 complete. 48 hour service.

•If you can't remove needle tend entire assembly.

arnous

'UNITED^

Low fares, frequent

on United’s 4-Engine Air Coaches help you make the most of your vacation.

ALSO

Ea TRANSCRIBER COMPANY

Diamond Stylus Manufacturers

70 Fine street - Dept C - 1 Y Attic bore. Most.

(^Zot Ov O* ^(^^u/ T^^^C

^ADAM would’ve had ’em S% ARROW underwear W/f for unbounded ease!

UNITED I AIR | COACH

"T” Shirt $1.25

Guards $1.20

They’re the greatest thing in comfort since the figleaf. And, Arrow underwear is easier to find than fig leaves, too. Your Arrow dealer has Arrow underwear which gives you solid comfort, real unbounded ease in any position. Until you’ve worn Arrow underwear you’ve never known what comfort really is.

Undershirt $1.00

Shorts $1.50

Arosnap $1.50

A//H Ol V UNDERWEAR

SHIRTS • TIES • HANDKERCHIEFS • CASUAL WEAR

NICKY'S

PIZZERIA & RESTAURANT 1235 E. 55th Street NO 7-9063

Free delivery to U. of C. student* On any order

Quick Courteous Service — 6 Days a Week

Table Service Delivery Service

11 A.M. to 2 A.M. 5 P.M. to 2 A.M.

Open till 3 t.V. on Friday and Saturday

COMFORT is a private thing with ARROW

It starts right at the skin... with underwear. If it’s right, you never know you’re wearing it. If it’s not — ouch!

You re always comfortable in Arrow undershirts, “T” shirts, and the famous “Sprinter” shorts (Elastic waist, no center seam to bind.) Arrow Guards, the next*to-nothing shorts for active men, are ace-high with college men — they know Arrow underwear prices begin at only $1.00.

Drop in tu see us and pure comforts

Chicago - Evanston - Oak Park - Evergreen - Gary - Joliet - A December 10, 1954

THE CHICAGO MAROON

Page 15

One taken, one blown, by Maroon eagers

Lose to Chicago Teachers

UC’s second basketball game proved to be their first loss Saturday as Chicago Teachers won their first game, 77-71.

Never out of contention but never in the lead, the Maroon team remained from one to seven points behind after tying the score, 28-28, with four minutes to go in the first half. Good shooting was overbalanced by poor rebounding which

allowed the Teachers to maintain their small margin.

The game appeared out of reach only in the final two minutes of play when Teacher’s John Moscato kept possession of the ball by some trieky dribbling.

A large crowd, made larger by nineteen concert band players, watched Walt Walker/Dick Rowland. Bill Lester, Fred Hubbard, and Joe Feinberg play most of the first half together. Lester, who was high point man for the evening with 20 points, sank a lot of

his. jump-shot specialty. The team play varied through the game. Part of UC’s rebounding troubles were caused by the tall Teachers’ forwards, who gave Hubbard and Rowland considerable difficulty.

CHICAGO TCHR. 77

CHICAGO 71

Mc Grath Hernandez Rohter Fewkes Moore Mc Carthy Yohanan Moscato Hale

Totals

F 6
0

4 1

3 5

4

3 2

G 2
0 2

0 9

4 2
♦; o

P 4
2 3

1 4

5 0

3 1

28 21 23

Fei ii berg Rowland Garcia Binford Hubbard Pomrehn Lester Walker Watkins

Totals

F

3

4

0

1

4

0

5

0

6

G 0
2

5 0

3 0

10 3

2

P 5
2 2
2 5
1 0
2

1

never;

Beat Illinois Prof. School

In Final Minute, 54'51

Maroon basketballers eked out a three-point victory over Illinois Professional School Wednesday night, 54-51. Trailing by one point with thirty seconds left, the medical men lost the ball on the ten-second rule, and Mitch Watkins sank a set shot to give the UC team a one-point lead.

With seconds left Al Binford wrestled an IPS player for

23 25 19

HAVING TYPEWRITER TROUBLE?

Prompt, rclioblc repair service Typewriters rented, bought ond sold ACTIVE TYPEWRITER SERVICE 1452 E. 57 St. PL 2-0541

(Special Student Discount)

See MOMMY KISSING SANTA CLAUS!

"Christmas behind the Iron Curtain!"

UC wins in Three-man foil

A three-man foil team from this University won the Fencers League of America’s championship in that event for this state last week. This means that Jay Levine, Paul Ross, and Mike Fain are state champs in a national organization. These three fought through three rounds of bouts, eliminating seven competing teams. In the final round they clinched the championship, five bouts to two.

the ball, and slammed the succeeding jump far out of the Professionals’ reach. In the chase for the ball, Joe Chisholm was fouled, just as the buzzer sounded. Standing alone — the game already won for UC — he sank one of two free shots, giving the final margin of victory.

Chicago took an early lead and held it through the first-half, but the Maroon’s defense fell apart in the second and third quarters, giving IPS a nine-point lead at the point in the second half. UC players tried a number of long set shots which missed during this period.

Bill Lester got high point honors for the third game in three, although he shared the title with

give basketball open house tonight

The Interfraternity council has decided to sponsor a series of open houses following weekend home basketball games.

The open houses will lie informal affairs. There will be no charge of any sort; everyone in attendance at the basketball games is welcome.

The open houses will be held at a different fraternity each time. The first will be held tonight at the Phi Kappa Psi house, 5555 Woodlawn. There will be records for dancing and light refreshments will be served.

Mitch Watkins, each dropping in 15 points.

Only a hearty group of fans— including Assistant Dean of Students Woeliner—braved the rain to observe the game. Neither band nor cheerleaders were present.

The Joe Dimaggio Calendar

Get December's SHAFT COLLEGE HUMOR!

Out today at the University Bookstore

on campus

ILL. PROF. S. 52

CHICAGO 54

19 14 14

19 16 17

Totals

Totals

G

Glickman,! 5

For those

(

0

2

4

4 0

4

G 4
2 0
2 0
5 6

F 3
2 2
1 0
5 3

P 3
3

1 2

3 3
2

F 1
0 3
6 4
0 0

P 1
2 G
4 5
0 2

Senators send soap to

We carry a complete line of wines, liquors ond imports

55th & University Ml 3-0524

Rowland.f Fein berg,f Binford,f Chisholm,! Hubbadd,c Lester.g Watkins,g

Morris,!

Doolen.f Carpent’r,c P!au,g Sikorski,g

Lucas,g

you knouf

REAT gift idea! Budweiser, the world’s most distinguished beer, in bright new Holiday Cartons of six or twelve cans.

ND, when friends come to call during the friendly Holiday Season, serve Budweiser, the Perfect Host to a Host of Friends

Budweiser

WORLD’S LARGEST-SELLING BEER

ANHEUSER-BUSCH, INC., ST. LOUIS • NEWARK • LOS ANGELES December 10, 1954

Page 16

THE CHICAGO MAROON

Sports Briefs

First time in 8 years: Northwestern swims UC

JV Hoopsters break even; Sports Calenda

win, lose, to Calumet

Coach Joe Stampf’s JV basketball teams split a double, , header against Calumet Tuesday, the frosh-soph winning,

for the first time in eight years and the second time in history today. 3^-20, but then oldei brothers di opped the second game, 27-58. The only other time that the two schools met in this sport, in February of 1947, the Wildcats won, 62-21, at Evanston. The score will probably be closer today, since in spite of Northwestern’s ranking fourth

in Big Ten swimming last year, Chicago’s squad has shown great depth and versatility so far this year.

UC visits UIC for basketball Next Thursday the UC basketball team will play Illinois Tech in the first round of the University of Illinois at Chicago’s second annual basketball tournament. The University of Illinois at Chicago, commonly called UIC. is an important name in UC basketball history. It was against UIC in February of 1953. that Chicago broke its long losing streak. Last year UIC turned the tables by beating the Maroons twice in an otherwise good season. If they win Thursday, the UC team will meet the winners of a Lewis-Chicago Teachers game Friday. The Championship game is Saturday And for Midwest gymnastics

Another Chicago team will be going to UIC for a tournament this week. Tomorrow the gymnastics team enters the Midwest Open there. Herb Taylor is entered in all eight of the championship events except the trampoline. Alumnus Andy Stayart is also competing, since the team is entered from Acrotheatre, and not the University. Mark Schuh, Bob Herndon, and Yehuda Baskin, who has returned to UC from an army stint, are also entered. In the novice events thirteen younger gymnasts will compete for Aero. Both Taylor and Stayart are winners of the Daniel L. Hoffer memorial trophy for gymnastics. Names of the novice men competing for Aero are: Mike Jferrigan, Craig Saunders. Jerry Jordan, Paul Macapia. Bill Leicht, John Bowman. Elichii Fukashima, Mark Schuh. Bob Dauphin, Ernest Finch, Noble Lee, Wick Coe, and Russell Linford.

Improved play in the second game on behalf of the JVers was often wasted by poor shooting; John Davey was high scorer for the team with seven points, even though he played

guard.

High scorer for the game was Calumet’s forward Jim Collins, who scored 17 points through the game and helped his

quarters, outscoring their opponents, 14-13 in the third period, but still couldn’t make a serious threat to Calumet’s quick lead.

Today : Swi mmi ng Northwestern, 4 p.m Bartlett Pool. Basketball, Geqrge Williams, 8 p.m., Fieldhouse,

Tomorrow: JV Basketball, Elgin, 2 p.m., at Elgin. Gymnastics, Midwest Open, 1 30 and’ 7:30 p.m. at Navy Pier.

UNIVERSITY

Player Wieseneck Nelson Hardvail Wolff Davey Penn Davis

Totals

2

2

2 0

3

28

0 0
0

1 0

4

6

3

4

2 1
0

Pts

0

7

2

6

28

TERRY’S PIZZA

finest pizzas made

CALUMET 57

Player Interberg Collins Griy Philos Beilfuss Ward Chilton Force Humphrey

Totals

FG 7
5 3
4 1
0 2
1 0

FT

7 0
3 1

0 0
0

F

2

2

2 0

0

3

Pts 14 17

11

3 0
4

2 0

33

12 57

first quarter. University High mates get off to an 18-5 lead in the played better ball in the following

I

FREE DELIVERY TO

ALL UC STUDENTS

SMALL

MEDIUM

1.00

1.45

We also carry a full

1518 E. 63rd St.

LARGE

GIANT

1.95

2.95

line of Italian foods

Ml 3-4045

Fermi

(from page 3)

own criteria and trained them in his own unorthodox way. I do not think that he ever spoke of scientific ideals or that he used any moralizing words, but by the force of his example inspired in everybody such a burning devotion to science that I venture to say for this group of young men between the ages of 20 and 25, with a leader of 27 or 28, science was the greatest passion.”

GREYHOUND’S the GREATEST IN SAVINGS! IN CONVENIENCE! IN COMFORT!

It’s an old school tradition—going home for the holidays by GREYHOUND—and you still save on extra 20% on the return trip — when you buy a Round-Trip Ticket!

 On* Way Round Trip CINCINNATI . . $ 6.70 $12.10 CLEVELAND . . 7.60 13.70 DAVENPORT . . 3.85 6.95 DES MOINES . . 7.35 13.25 DETROIT GRAND RAPIDS, 6.50 11.70 MICH 4.50 8.10 INDIANAPOLIS . 4.20 7.60 LOUISVILLE, KY. 6.70 12.10 MADISON, WIS. 2.45 4.45 MILWAUKEE . . MINNEAPOLIS- 1.70 3.10 ST. PAUL, MINN. . 7:30 10.90* OMAHA, NEB. . 10.40 18.75 PITTSBURGH, PA. 10.25 18.45 ST. LOUIS, MO. . 4.95 8.95 SOUTH BEND, IND. 2.10 3.80 • 30 DAY RETURN LIMIT (Plus U. S. Tax)

fares subject to change without notice.

JOHN STOCKS TRAVEL BUREAU

Administration Building 5801 S. Ellis Ave. Phone Midway 3-0800

GREYHOUN

EM-Amerira's J^ Filter Cigarette!

FOR EVERY FILTER SMOKER ON YOUR LIST!

KING SIZE OR REGULAR

Perfect to give ... no filter compares with L&M’s Miracle Tip for quality or effectiveness. Much more flavor, much less nicotine. L&M — America’s best filter cigarette...in the most distinctive of holiday cartons.

