'Disorderly, but very much alive' — This University and ancient Greece When Hutchins, Adler. Mc Keon, et al, set out to inculcate the UC student body in- the Greek classics, it is doubtful if they thought that their University would ever be compared—and favorably, at that—with the Hellenes.

Lucien Price recording the dialogues of Alfred North Whitehead (Little, Brown and Co., Boston, 1954, $5.00) reports that the ancient Greeks achieved a high cultural level despite the sordid atmosphere of some of their cities. They had murders, he admits, but they got things done.

Then Whitehead added: “I fancy the place I have been in that was most like Greece was a gathering of university scholars at Chicago. The city was disorderly but very much alive.”

Where is the Cap and Gown?

'Turn Me Over When I'm Done' LJC’ers face campus crisis of yearbook nonappearance

by Mitcha M Siem

A mystery with complexing and baffling overtones has hit the University of Chicago campus. Although not as intriguing as some of the contemporary who-done-its, it has the student body wondering. The question is simply: “Where is the Cap and Gown?”

Gil Ginsburg says as be stretches out under the heat wave, grassy surfaces surrounding the cam Midway sun. As summer school started and the pus were littered with students seeking sun and city neaftd the second week of its 90 degree plus sleep.

Language courses here

use new teaching method

This , summer the annual Linguistic Institute of the Linguistic Society of America is being held here in cooperation with the University of Chicago. During the eight-week meeting of the Institute, a faculty from American and European universities will offer a variety of courses relating to the central theme: Linguistics and Philosophy.

In addition, the Institute is introducing to the University two intensive language courses taught by the “Army” or “oral-aural” method, which was developed for the Army during

World War II by the Linguistic Society of America. This summer the intensive language program includes a course in Russian and a course in English for Latin-Americans and Eastern Europeans.

The directors of the language program, Gordon Fairbanks of Cornell University and Miss Angela Paratore of Indiana University, described the theory and practice of the rural method of language teaching.

Language composed of habit*

Language is essentially a skill composed of at least two sets of habits. The problem of language teaching is that of imparting a skill, which involves imitation of an expert, in this case, a native speaker of the language and extensive repetition and practice.

In this respect the method attempts to duplicate in the classroom the conditions under which a child normally learns his native language. However, since the student is an adult who has acquired one important skil, the ability of speech in his own language, no attempt is made to avoid the use of his language where understanding may be facilitated by so doing.

Childr M loam by imitation

Children learn language purely by imitation, but a college student may be given explanations in his own language that will increase his speed in learning the language.

In the summer courses here,

Two fires brighten campus life;

A hot time was had by all

Two fires on campus have highlighted the first week of the summer quarter. Both fires occurred Monday, one in the basement of the business school and the other in the pantry of Kelly Hall.

Both fires caused little damage. The Haskell fire damage is still undetermined. According to Mrs. Eva Sutherland, assistant to the director of the School of Business, the fire started in the jacket of a janitor who was on vacation.

The jacket was on a chair in ihe building basement and only the jacket and chair were damaged. Four fire engines were on hand for the noon hour blaze.

A faulty mechanism on a refrigerator caused the Kelly fire. Miss Charlotte Ellenwood, househead of Kelly, discovered the fire and reported that the icebox will have to be replaced.

Give issue dates

The Maroon will publish two more times during the summer, on July 16 and on August 6. Then, like the University, we will vacation until Orientation Week.

four hours a day are devoted to language study, one of which consists of explanations in the student’s native language by a competent linguist. The rest of the time is devoted to workshops, in which records and native speakers are used in order to give the students familiarity with the language as it is spoken. These three hours are devoted almost entirely to aural practice, all explanatory material of a theoretical nature being reserved for the first hour. Material may be limited

At almost no time are sounds, words, or phrases learned which are not independently meaningful and directly applicable to some situation in which the speaker is likely to be involved. In this manner, everything which the student learns is known fluently, even though the amount of material might be quite limited. While under the traditional method of language teaching, the student usually acquires a large fund of “passive vocabulary” prior to the time that he is able to speak with any degree of fluency; under this method, the student has an “active” and fluent use of everything he learns.

Tests given to two groups of students taught under the two above methods indicate that after 360 hours of study, students taught under the new method not only speak the language far more fluently than those taught under the old method, but that the two groups of students have approximately equal proficiency in reading the language.

Language teachers in general are becoming more and more convinced that a speaking knowledge of a language is a necessary foundation for proficiency in reading and writing the language. The intensive language courses being offered here this summer might be considered a laboratory for demonstration of that proposition.

Lawson gives physics for nomscientists

The physics department of the division of physical science has instituted a new course designed for non-physics majors. It is listed as physics 299.

Essentially the course will be conducted on a non-mathematical basis. No prerequisites are required for enrolling in the class. Physics 299 will be conducted during the first half of the quarter and students will receive one-half course credit.

Professor Andrew W. Lawson will conduct the main part of the course. However, most of the sessions will be devoted to talks by other members of the faculty. They will discuss the experimental developments on which they are working.

Physics 299 will be a review of current developments in the field of modern physics. It will be orientated towards students and teachers of science who have a BS in physical sciences. It is designed for students not working toward a degree in physics. For this reason the emphasis will be on the content and importance of these developments rather than a mathematical approach.

The Cap and Gown, UCs yearbook, was first expected on May 15, then May 21, and

late June 15. It is now June 25 and it has not appeared yet. This has led to many and varied speculations on the part of those who have paid for their copies. The most frequent question is “Is it really coming out?”

Yearbook is coming out

A spokesman for the Cap and Gown, who, for obvious reasons did not want to be named, said that the yearbook was definitely coming out, and then added that there will be a short delay. The Cap and Gown spokesman did not enumerate the reasons for the delay Gathering in sullen bunches around Cap and Gown advertisements, UC students have been

Conference analyzes student life in USA

A four-day conference on “Student Life and Education in the United States” concluded Wednesday.

Participating in the conference, which was sponsored by the UC Committee on International Exchanges in cooperation with the Conference Board of Associated Research Councils, were educators from all over the United States and the nations

in Western Europe, the Middle East and Asia.

Opening the conference was George Stoddard, former president of the University of Illinois and presently with the office of institutional research and educational planning at New York University. Stoddard discussed “The Development of Educational Patterns in the United States,” tracing the development of public, adult, women’s and technical education in America.

Fisk president speaks

Other major addresses were given by Charles S. Johnson, president of Fisk University, who discussed “Curricular and Extracurricular Education,” and by Helen White, professor of English at the University of Wisconsin, whose speech class dealt with “Conceptions of the Responsibilities of the Educated Person.”

Richard P. Mc Keon... whose familiar pipe was present at B J during the education conference.

overheard making dire threats against the yearbook’s editor and staff unless action is undertaken immediately.

Distribution problem arises

A real problem has arisen in the distribution of the Cap and Gown. Many of the students in residence this summer have moved and want their books sent to the new address, when it finally comes out. They are advised to phone the Cap and Gown office and instruct the staff accordingly.

And so the problem remains. Where is Cap and Gown? When will it appear, that is, if it does. The MAROON will publish again in three weeks, and will let you know if it has come out by then.

Several UC faculty members participated in the conference. Richard P. Mc Keon, Charles F. Grey, distinguished service professor of philosophy, who discussed the problem of “Human Values Versus Technology” in American education. Robert M. Strozier, dean of students, chaired the conference.

NSA officers attend

National Students Association officers James Edwards, president, and Cynthia Courtney and Gene Keating, vice-presidents, joined with Erich Walter, assistant to the president of the University of Michigan, and with Chester Ruedisili, associate dean of the college of letters and science at the University of Wisconsin, in a discussion of educational services and extracurricular ao tivities at American universities.

Also attending the conference was Paul J. Braisted, president of the Hazen Foundation, which provided the funds for the meeting, NSA given Ford grant

The United States National St dent Association has received a grant of $29,400 from the Ford Foundation, James M. Edwards^ president of the association, a nounced last week.

Purpose of the grant is to assist the Association’s program “to foster the development of campua student organizations and student participation in college adminiatration to the end that college men and women will be better prepared for civic leadership and citizenship * fate 2

TH! CHICAGO MAROON

Jhm 25, 1554

Issued once weekly by the publisher, The Chicogo Maroon, ot the publica Hon office, 5706 South University Avenue, Chicago 37, Illinois. Telephones: Editorial Office, Midway 3-0800, Ext. 1010; Business and Advertising Offices, Midway 3-0800, Ext. 1009. Distributed free of charge, and subscriptions by moil, $3 per year. Business Office hours: 1 to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday.

City abounds with culture during summer months

Richard Ward Acting Editor

Reva Brown

Business Manager

Although cultural activity on the campus comes to a standstill during the Summer Quarter much activity takes place in the city and the surrounding areas.

Nine Summer theatres and one repertory theatre will present programs. Within the Loop five plays are currently show Collegiate Scene

Southern college papers defend Court decision

The recent segregation decision of the Supreme Court has had reactions in certain areas of the South that would seem more constructive and promising than those of southern political leaders reported in the newspapers.

That is, if comments on the court decision from the student newspapers at the University of North Carolina and the Alabama Polytechnic Institute are actually representative of student opinion on ibis important issue.

The Daily Tar Heel of the University of North Carolina, probably the most enlightened campus paper in the south, has this to say about the recent ruling. “Southern schools, this University among them, must now face the truth—that ‘separate but equal’ is a meaningless phrase, that places of learning, if separate, are inherently unequal.

“We hold this one—like those other great truths declared in our Constitution—to be self-evident: It is time to stop postponing brotherhood. This is a time for the turning of thought and opinion into wide, new channels, a time for the yielding of old prejudices and ignorant discrimination before the patient and powerful light of Christianity.

“South Carolina’s Governor Byrnes and many like him in the Routh, many of them our friends and people we love, now stand eclipsed. Their South is gone, or it is going, and the bitterness and antagonism no longer seem very significant, though we do not deny khat there is bitterness yet to be overcome before perfect equality is achieved, even in North Carolina, even in Chapel Hill. It is simply that the path is now very clear indeed, and for the Southern states and the University, there is no other path, though we be emotionally reluctant at first to follow it.”

Alabama Polytechnic Institute's Plainsman editorialized, “Segregation will continue in Alabama for some time. Reform will be a gradual process, not sudden. Therefore, the ruling is not a signal for ‘hotheads’ to scatter their own peculiar brand of hell. There are some of Us who are outraged merely for the sake of notoriety.

“Here on our campus, liberalism extends beyond the boundaries of that exemplified by the population of the state. Racial equality has occurred in the armed services without violence. Likewise, there will be very little antagonism over the mingling of minds on an educational problem.”

Letters...

No cash for LAK

The statements of Chancellor Kimpton and his cohorts have convinced me of one thing: so long as that man is heading the university I will not contribute one cent to Ms support. His insulting of the Student body and his destruction of the slowly constructed tradition of scholarship (for which the school was known) have indicated that he is not only a nihilist, but Also a coward. He is kowtowing to what he believes to be the public concept of education, not seeming to realize that the public does pot have a very clear idea of what goes on in a university except from the sports pages of the newspapers. Evidently Kimpton has Mot bothered to discover that the Jife of the average student in gny institution of higher learning does not involve many sports; these are reserved for the trained experts. The chancellor should be proud of the intellectual level of his student body. If these people are not the leaders of tomorrow (as he does not seem to think they are) then we will probably be headed- for national destruction through simple stupidity. The undergraduate enrollment has fallen for very good reasons and not because the students are intel Jegent. Even when I started at UC in 1946 the University was famous all over the Midwest for its level of intellect. The real reasons lie in the inability of students these days to pay such high tuition and in the death of imagination evidenced by the ascension of such a low caliber person as Kimpton to take the place of the highly inspirational Hutchins. I think the firing of Kimpton would do more for the University than the importation of the future Chicago Bears.

Arthur Sorensen, MA '52

Center gains

Carnegiecash

The Center for the Study of American Foreign Policy has received 75,000 dollars from the Carnegie Corporation. The Center, located at the University of Chicago was given the money so that it could carry on its research on United States' participation in world affairs.

ing. At the Ravinia Festival Chicago, the Ballet Theatre is currently presenting a series of performances through Sunday. Beginning Tuesday, the concerts of the Chicago Symphony Orchestra will begin under the direction of William Steinberg, musical director of the Pittsburg Symphony. The Concerts continue throughout the Summer.

Free outdoor concerts are given in Grant Park at the foot of 11th St. every Wednesday, Friday, Saturday and Sunday at 8 p.m. In addition, many of the art gallaries throughout the city and particullarily on the near north side are presenting exhibitions by contemporary artists, sculptors, and craftsmen.

Among the Summer theatres, the Salt Creek Theatre in Hinsdale most consistently presents the best known actors quality plays. Charles Coburn is now appearing at Salt Creek in You Can’t Take It With You. Comparable bills in musicals are presented at the Music Theatre in Highland Park. June Carrol and Jack Gilford are now appearing in Call Me Madam.

The Dunes Arts Foundation in Michigan City, Indiana conducts classes in graphics arts, dance, and dramatics. Exhibitions of art by students and instructors and student dance recitals take place throughout the summer. Part of the Foundation, the Michiana Summer Theatre presents plays with companies selected from the dram departments of colleges and universities throughout the country.

At the beginning of last summer Chicago’s only permanent repertory theatre, The Playwright’s Theatre Club was founded by a group of actors and persons interested in theatre including many University of Chicago students, alumni, and faculty members. Since then it has operated regularily each week presenting plays such as Brecht’s Caucasian Chalk Circle and Three Penny Opera, Buechner’s Wozzek, William’s Glass Menagerie, plays by Chekov, Schnitzler, Strindberg, Thomas S. Eliot, Sartre, and

in Highland Park, north of

Shaw, and some original productions by members of the company. In the course of the year, Playwright’s has attracted many members for Broadway and from professional touring company’s. This summer it is presenting a festival of four Shakespeare plays. A Midsummer Nights Dream, Henry IV, The Tempest, and Romeo and Juliet in its new theatre at Dearborn and Division.

In the Loop. Time out for Ginger is at the Harris; Me and Juliet, with Joan Mc Cracken and Bill Hayes is at the Schubert. The Selwyn features My Three Angels; The Great Northern, Stalag 17; and the Blackstone is showing Twin Beds.

The Hyde Park Theatre, at 53rd and Lake Park presents the better films, both recent and revived. In the Loop, the World Playhouse and the Ziegfeld specialize in first run domestic and foreign art films. The Surf, on the near North Side, also presents first runs, particularly qf British imports.

Sunday, June 27

Religious service. Rockefeller

Chapel, 11 a.m., Reverend John B. Thompson, Dean of the Chapel.

Carillon Recital, Rockefeller Chapel, 7:30 p.m., James R. Lawson, Chapel carillonneur.

Organ Recital, Carl Weinrich, Director of chapel music, Princeton University, 8 p.m.

Viennese Waltzing, International House, 8 p.m.

Monday, June 28 ,

Exhibition by artist members of the Renaissance Society, Goodspeed 108, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Mon Gene Troobnick

one of the stellar performers of the Playwrights Theatre company.

day through the Summer quaft ter.

Motion picture, Il Trovatore, International House, 8:30 p.m.

Wednesday, June 30

South East Chicago Commission meeting, Mandel Hall, 4:15 p.m., Julian Levi and Jack Meltzer discussing the Hyde Park Urban Renewal Program.

Carillon Recital, Rockefeller Chapel, 7:30 p.m., James R. Lawson.

Thursday, July 1

Square Dancing, Ida Noyes patio, 8 p.m.

Motion picture, It Happened One Night, International House, 8:30 p.m.

NO 7-9071 HYDE PARK THEATRE at'Rrd PARK

HELD OVER

The life and morals of

Six wonderfully piquant comedy

THROUGH SUNDAY, JUNE 27

TIMES —

MME DV ^ ^’^^ m UNE Di Vi Nooia De Ska

continental stories ranging through

to earthy, peasant humor .

from

International House Movie Program

Assembly Hall, Monday and Thursday Evenings ot 8:30 P.M.

Monday, June 28—II Trovatore (Italian)

Thursday, July 1—It Happened One Night (American) 

Monday, July 5—Fifty Years Before Your Eyes (American) 

Thursday, July 8—The House of Seven Gables (American) 

Monday, July 12—La Marseillaise (French)

45c

35c

35c

35c

35c

Thursday, July 15—Of Mice and Men (American) . .35c

Home runs have replaced “Points of Order”

Ml 3-0524

at

1131-33 E. 55th

featuring

Ballantine Ale and Beer

pantomime on courtship and marriage set to turn-of-thecentury ballads to Pirandello's high tragedy piece about infidelity from a tender childhood romance complicated by some innocent misconceptions about how babies are conceived TO THE MASTER OF THE LOT —the hilarious daring courtroom scene, with VITTORIO DE SICA, one of the world's great directors proving he is one of the world's great actors; GINA LOLLOBRIGIDA at her beauteous, busty best.

With A UPA Cartoon Concert

ROOTY-TOOT-TOOT and MR. MAGOO. the UNICORN, OOMPAHS, and MADELINE, too.

PINOCCHIO by Walt Disney

Starting Monday, June 28

UP IN ARMS

Donny Kaye

Two great earlier works by two great masters of comedy DISNEYIANA at its enchanting, rollicking best , that rate os brilliant clowning.

Starting Monday, July 5

Anatole Litvak's ACT OF LOVE Introducing the talented young French actress Dany Robin.

KAYEDENZAS

Louis Bunuel's MEXICAN BUS RIDE

Canes Prix 1952 best Avantgarde film produced and directed by the great Spanish producer-director of Young and he Damned.

Coming

Gogol's masterpiece THE OVERCOAT

Dicken's ditto PICKWICK PAPERS

Ralph Richardson's latest HOLLY AND THE IVY

THE FINAL TEST (The British joke about cricket Current and Choice in Time Mog) with Robert Morley

Vittorio de Sica's latest INDISCRETION OF AN AMERICAN WIFE with his greatest BICYCLE THIEF Gino Lollobrigida THE WHITE LINE LILI and

LIMELIGHT

Pleose consult the daily newspapers for the date ot these showings

Student Rote 50c All Performances If You Present Your ID Cord ot the Boxoffice h M 25, 1954

>7 '

THE CHICAGO MAROON

—

|£impton describes future University contributions

Speaking before the two sessions of the spring semester convocation exercises at Rockefeller Memorial Chapel Friday, June 11,1954, Chancelor Lawrence A. Kimpton addressed himself primarily to those who were to be future alumni, giving a brief history of the accomplishments and facilities of UC.

The Chancellor stated that the University contribution to the future would take four

Chancellor Kimpton... who told the graduates that the University has more employees than students.

Doctor, astronomer

get honor degrees

The first man to discover a cauje of cancer and an eminent astronomer were honored by the University June 11 at the . spring convocation.

Dr. Peyton Rous, world-renowned cancer authority of the Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research, and Joel Stebbins, • distinguished professor emeritus of astronomy at the Univer- sity of Wisconsin, were awarded honorary doctor of science degrees at the University’s Iwo hundred sixty-first convoca• lion at Rockefeller Memorial Chapel.

Degrees were conferred on the two scientists and 734 June grad. uau- at the University. Two hundred and fifty-nine students were awarded bachelor’s degrees in the morning ceremony. Four hundred and seventy-five higher degrees were granted at the 3 p.m. ceremony.

Rout established 'blood bonk'

v Dr. Rous, who discovered that ’ many cancers of the domestic fowl can be transmitted in a cellfree state, was the first to demviwtrate that cancer can be caused । by viruses. He also discovered im I portant factors in skin grafting, , set up the first “blood bank,” and pioneered in studies important in * immunity to infectious diseases.

Dr. Rous was cited by the Uni Partrait* by LOUISE BARKER Photographer

1457 I. 57th St. BU 1-0876

NO TICKETS AVAILABLE?

If you can't see the play, read the book!

We have the tallowing recent Broadway successes now in stock:

THE REMARKABLE MR. PENNYPACKER

by O'Brien

ONDINE by Giraudoux SABRINA FAIR by Taylor CAINE MUTINY COURT MARTIAL by Wouk 

THE PRESCOTT PROPOSALS by Lindsay & Crouse He receive copies of all New York plays as soon as they are published. And we have a fine selection of books about the theatre for all armchair critics. So—if you can*t get to Broadway, come here!

Summer Session

Has Started

UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO BOOKSTORE

Jimmy^s

1172 E. 55th

a more prophetic gaze into his future. Finally, out of the social sciences must come an orderly evolution of society, the Chancellor • said.

forms: First, the education of children today and their children will be improved and enlarged by what is done at the University. Second, out of University science will come new discoveries which will expand knowledge; the sick will be made well and man’s lot all over the world will be improved.

Third, out of the humanistic studies will come a better understanding of man's past, a better

interpretation of his present

Describes community problems

Kimpton touched upon the problem of the University community. He said that if the community can be rebuilt both commercially and residentially, and if the community can be stabilized so that all its citizens can live happily together, the University will have accomplished something that has never been done before in any American city.

“It is not too early perhaps to say that we are beginning to win this battle, and when we do, we will have established a community which will serve as a model for every American city,” Chancellor Kimpton said.

Adds humorous touch

Kimpton’s speech was heavily interspersed with light comments about such subjects as the condition of Reynolds Clubs, the appearance of Paul Robeson, and the relative obsolescence of the cyclotron.

and

versity as "blessed with the gift of discovery, his experiments and his life characterized by elegance.”

Stebbins headed observatory

• Stebbins, director of the Washburn Observatory of the University of Wisconsin from 1922 to his retirement in 1948, was honored as "a master in the field of astrophotometry whose investigations have greatly contributed to knowledge of the stars and the stellar systems.”

A pioneer in the adaptation of photoelectric techniques to astronomical research, Stebbins determined the accurate colors of early type stars. This has been the basis for present knowledge of the structure of the galaxy. His early discoveries have also been important in knowledge of the evolution of stars and the structure of the universe.

Both Dr. Rous and Stebbins are members of the National Academy of Sciences. Dr. Rous received the John Scott medal and the Walker prize of the Royal College of Surgeons. Stebbins received the Bruce medal of the Astronomical Society of the Pacific and the gold medal of the Royal Astronomical Society.

$2.75

$2.75

$2.75

It's a girl!

for the Bill Birenbaums. The Director of Student Activities’ daughter, Laren Amy, was born June 9. The bouqcing baby weighed eight pounds, six ounces. She is pictured above when four days old.

UC get funds for research

The University of Chicago has received a pledge of $15,000 for its Cancer Research Center. The pledge was made by the Herbert A. Gorney Cancer Foundation.

The pledge, to be presented by Harry Cohn, president of the Foundation, will be used to support the center’s department of anesthesiology. Last month the Gorney Foundation presented an electronic device that checks the heart beat, brain waves, breathing rate, blood pressure, pulse, and body temperature during an operation. It is to be used during the course of cancer and other operations.

Presentation of the money took place during the annual dinner dance meeting of the 500 member organization in the Red Lacquer Room of the Palmer House last Sunday, June 20.

Teller, 'fabulous teacher/

testifies at AEC hearing

The man who has been described by his colleagues as “a fabulous physics 105-6-7 instructor” and as “The father of the H-bomb” was the leading witness against the A-bomb’s father, J. Robert Oppenheimer.

The Atomic Energy Commission released Teller’s testimony which played a leading part in denying Oppenheimer security clearance. Teller told the AEC that the Princeton scientist

was a loyal American who would not willingly breach security regulations. But judging by his conduct, Teller said, 

For Rent

would be wiser not to grant him security clearance.”

Teller, who taught here from 1934 until 1953, has been described by UC physicists as “emotional,” “sensitive,” “brilliant,” and “intensely patriotic.” Teller was a popular instructor among both students and faculty, but his work on the atomic projects at Los Alamos, New Mexico, caused him to take more and more frequent leaves of absence. After the war, as one professor said, Teller was living “almost a double life.” Had conflicts with Oppenheimer

Scientists who knew Teller both at the Institute for Nuclear Studies and at Los Alamos said that Teller and Oppenheimer had “intellectual and moral conflicts.” It was also said that there was a professional rivalry between the two men.

On June 1 — in its controversial decision — the AEC loyalty board ruled that Oppenheimer displayed a “lack of enthusiasm” for work on the hydrogen bomb, and “though loyal and discreet (he was a) security risk.”

These are charges which could hardly, say the UC scientists, be leveled against Teller. He “drove hard, had a fine sense of humor and an enormous energy for work.”

Yet some scientists were still confused by Teller’s action in the Oppenheimer case.

ACASA Book Store

SCHOLARLY USED BOOKS MODERN GREETING CARDS EXPERT TYPEWRITER SERVICE

1117 E. 55th St.

HY 3-9651

$2.75

$2.75

CONTINENTAL

Go"1’*1

RESTAURANT

1508 E. 57th (Corner Lake Park)

Open from 4:30 p.m. to Midnight

Alumnus hit

by Army for UC activity

Membership in three student organizations at the University of

Chicago has resulted missal and discharge instructor at Fort New Jersey.

Barry A. Miller, a

in the disof a radar Monmouth,

former UC

student, was demoted from acting corporal to the lowest grade of private and discharged from the Army on June 8. The reason was his membership in the Socialist Youth League, a Trotskyite organization cited as “subversive** by the Attorney General, and in the Independent Socialist League, a splinter group which broke off from SYL, and was also cited as “subversive.”

Miller was an SYL member from 1948 to 1951 and with the Independent Socialists for a year after that. Miller was also a member of the Politics Club in 1948 and 1949.

Miller’s discharge has been appealed by Norman Thomas, former Socialist Party candidate for President, and by the Defense League, a legal aid organization in New York.

At the time of his induction Miller declined to list his membership affiliations, but volunteered the information at a later date.

It is not known whether Miller was one of the persons on Senator Joseph Mc Carthy’s list of “security risks” at Fort Monmouth.

Faculty apt. 6019 Ingleside. Available July 5 to September 20. Reasonable rent. DO 3-1939.

2-rm. anfurn. apt. avail. Aug. 1. Bath, kit., *65. Chamberlin, 5437 woodlawn, MU 4-2106.

Rooms for rent. $26 to *30 per month. Psi Upsilon, 5639 University. Kitchen privileges.

Selling year old furn., avail. Aug. 1. Bed. chest, lamps, bookcases. Chamberlin, MU 4-2016.

New air conditioners, any model, lowest price anywhere. HY 3-3973.

Situations Wanted .

Need full-1 (me job—desperate. Soc student. HY 3-3973.

Wanted

Girl to share house for summer with three others, 57th block. Harper, HY 3-7921.

Services

Mat hematics. Special instruction to fit your mathematical needs. Individual ot group sessions. Albert Soglin, ST 2-6727,

Need some typing done? Call Kathleen Kenagy, BO 8-2068.

Business Services

Rent an electric refrigerator as low m $4 per month. Also we repair refrigerators. CO 4-9231.

5802 Ellis Avenue Fife 4

THE CHICAGO MAROON Jew 25, 1^4

Calvert Club summer plans show variety

During the summer quarter Calvert Club, the campus center for Roman Catholics, will present a varied program of discussions and outings.

Open house will be held Sunday at 7:30 p.m. in De Sales House, 5735 University, when Dr. Edward G. Gargan, assistant professor of history at Loyola University, will lead a lecture-discussion on "The Christian Historian and the Modern World.” Refreshments will be served f^ee of charge before and after the discussion.

Professor William Oscar Perlmutter of the social sciences department at St. Xavier College will discuss various ’aspects of liberal education on Sunday, July 11, at 8 p.m. Perlmutter recently completed work on the self-study project in this field conducted by St. Xavier with Ford Foundation funds.

The weekend of July 16-18 will be devoted to the spiritual life at the Calvert Club’s suburban retreat, Childerly, and the theme will be centered on the Virgin Mary, in honor of the Marian Year.

Sunday afternoon and evening, July 25, a swimming and picnic party will be held and the summer finale will come August 1 when Professor Frank Flynn of the UC School of Social Service Administration will lead a discussion on juvenile delinquency.

Anthonelli new editor of UC magazine

Felicia Anthonelli will assume the duties of editor of the University of Chicago Magazine Thursday. She will share the editorship with Audrey Probst, at present an associate editor.

Miss Anthonelli, who graduated the college in 1950, has been a reporter on the Wall Street Journal for five years. She replaces Harold “Shag” Donahue who resigned.

Donahue who has been editor for two years said, “I've liked working here very much — because of the extraordinary subject matter that the magazine has carried and because of the intelligence of our readers.”

The magazine is published by the Alumni Association and is read by about 10,000 UC graduates.

18 Graduate CTS as Northcott talks

The Reverend Cecil Northcott of London, England, presented the commencement address for the ninety-fifth annual commencement June 10 at the Chicago Theological Seminary. Bachelor of Divinity degrees were awarded to 18 students.

Frank Loomos the star hurdler of the track team, gained a pair of arms when the yearly picture of the squad was made. Perhaps Loomos would

breaks more records if he ran on his hands.

'All States' party

opens

summer's social activity

The summer recreational and social activities began last Wednesday evening with the annual “All States” party held in the patio of Ida Noyes Hall.

The party was sponsored by Student Union, and attended by Dean of Students Robert M. Strozier and Mrs. Alma Mullin, assistant director of student activities. Mrs. Mullin said that the event was attended by about 125 people and she also noted that many students present had just entered the University. .

The “All States” theme of the party was emphasized by souvenirs from different sections of the US and travel posters.

The party is an annual event

designed with one quarter.

Student

to acquaint students another early in the

Union will sponsor another dance on July 16. As a relief from the hot weather, the theme of the party is to be “Christmas In July.” Admission will be 75 cents per person at this quarterly “C” dance. The Jacks of Rhythm, a five-piece band will play at the dance; also to be held in the Ida Noyes patio.

Each Wednesday evening informal folk /lancing will be held at Ida Noyes Hall. The Country Dancers will sponsor the Wednesday night events and there will be no charge.

On the July 4 weekend the Student Union outing department

Student Advisory Board meeting

Members of the Student Advisory Board on campus during the summer will meet at 7:30 p.m. Thursday. The Hitchcock House apartment of Mrs. Ruth Mc Carn, assistant dean of students, will be the meeting place.

Methods of contacting prospective students in the Chicago area will be the subject of the discussion.

65 athletes get letters;

track star honored

65 varsity athletes competing in spring sports were awarded letters. Among those honored for their participating in the University’s athletic program was George Mc Cormick, who received his major. “C” award posthumously. Mc Cormick, the anchor man of the track team, died in a Mexico plane crash last March.

Those receiving the letters were:

Major “C” awards: Jerold L. Couture, Jerome B. Bohman, George William <

Gilbert D. Levine, Robert E. Mann, Wendell H. Marumoto, Stephen H. Tarr, David G. Utley, and Walter L. Walker, baseball;

Robert A. Kelso, golf;

Duncan D. Burford, Robert B. Fox, Myron E. Howland, George B. Stone and Charles A. Werner, tennis;

Paul E. Baptist, E. Morgan Damerow, Walter E. Deike, James R. Flynn. Roger A. Forsyth, Hal Higdon, Joseph D. Howard, Justin Morris Johnson, Franklin D. Loomos, G. Robert Mason, John

Arnold Meardon, Arthur T. Omohundro, David C. Shephard, Kenwill hold a picnic in Stagg Field.

International House will hold its annual Folk Dance Festival on Saturday, July 10, at the International House Tennis Courts, or in case of rain in the Assembly Hall.

The Folk dance festival will feature the folk dance orchestra of Martin Kapugi, which is considered to be the best in the Chicago area. There will be an exhibition of dances of various ethnic groups including, the Scotch, Irish, Polish and Lithuanian.

The admission charge for the Folk Dance Festival is one dollar and the proceeds are to go to a scholarship fund to provide aid to a student at International House.

International House also sponsors Sunday evening waltzing in the Assembly room. The waltzing

is held each Sunday from 8 to p.m.

il

Fulbright forms now available

Student Fulbright and Buenos Aires convention program applications are now available in the Student Activities office, Reynolds Club 202.

Selection for the awards is made on the basis of the applicants’ personal qualifications, academic record and value of the proposed study or research project.

United States citizenship, possession of an undergraduate degree, knowledge of the country of study and good health are the basis eligibility requirements for these pre-doctorial programs.

yon R. Stapley, Daniel J. Trifone, Fredrick T. Wilson, and Philip J. Wyatt, track.

Old English “C” awards: J. Allison Binford, Jr., John A. Broyles, Bruce R. Colby, and Donald Maxukelli, baseball;

Walter E. Bison, David B. Mertz, Robert L. Philipson, and Herbert M. Taylor, golf;

Gerard R. Ledermann. Toby C. Owen and Thomas Zukowski, tennis;

Clive S. Gray, Lowell J. Hawkinson, Palmer W. Pinney, Raymond J. Sanders, Lawrence Shaderowsfky, and Andrew L. Thomas, track.

Teaching bridge at Ida Noyes

Contract bridge will be taught at Ida Noyes this summer beginning Tuesday, July 16, and continuing every Tuesday evening until August 10. Mrs. Josephine Walters Smith, certified contract bridge teacher, will instruct. The fee for the course will be nominal, the physical education department said. The lessons are from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. ’

For those who already know how to play, two bridge parties, following party rules, will be held this summer. The dates for these events are July 15 and August 17. Play begins in Ida Noyes at 7 p.m. and lasts two hours.

Fiske poetry prize winners named

Richard A. Finnegan and William Raymond Smith, Jr., won the John Billings Fiske Poetry Prizes for 1954.

Finnegan won with his poem “The Choice” and Smith with “The Man Moving Forward.”

Judges m the poetry writing contest were Elder Olson, associate professor of English; Delmore Schwartz, associate editor of the Partisan Review; and Nicholas Joost, asistant professor of English at Loyola University and an associate editor of Poetry magazine.

Small Old English “C” Awards: Mario E. Baur, Paul G. Hershall, Kirk D. Mc Michael, and Paul K. Orsay, baseball;

Barrie D. Smith, and Jack Vogel, golf;

Rene F. Montjoie, tennis;

Merlin R. Black, Alan D. Gordon, Sherrard Gray, John F. Lathrop, Walter I. Pozen, John E.

Smothers, Richard Sherrell, Arnold Winston, track.

and

organist at

Rockefeller

Carl Weinrich, one of the most distinguished American organists and director of chapel music at Princeton University, will present a public organ concert at the Rockefeller Memorial Chapel at 8 p.m. Sunday.

Weinrich, famous as a Bach player, will present the fourth annual concert of the Lutheran Council of the University.

His program will be; Toccata and Fugue in F by Dietrich Buxtehude; Chorale-Prelude on "How Brightly Shines the Morning Star,” Buxtehude; Benedictus, Francois Couperin; Three Chorale Preludes, By the Waters of Babylon, A Mighty Fortress, Comest Thou Now from Heaven to Earth, by Johann Sebastian Bach; Prelude and Fugue in A Minor, Bach; First Sonata in E Flat Minor, Paul Hindemith; and Third Movement from the “Ascension Suite” by Olivier Messiaen.

Weinrich, in addition to his directorship of chapel music at Princeton University, is on the music faculty at Columbia University. Since 1942, he has been one of the artists on the Arts Program of the Association of American Colleges.

The concert is open to the public without ticket or charge.

Students support Senator Douglas

Students for Douglas will hold an organizational meeting Tuesday in Soc. Sci. 122 at 8 p.m. The group plans to help out at the headquarters of Senator and UC professor Paul H. Douglas, who is campaigning for re-election to the United States Senate. The campus organization also plans to assist the Senator in his campaign at suburban shopping centers, as well as in the UC area.

Call Herb Schwartz or Bill Seltzer at Plaza 2-9704 for further information. ,

WHERE THE U of C MEETS TO EAT

SANDWICHES AND

COKES at

Eye Examinations Visual Training

Dr. Kurt Rosenbaum

optometrist

Qfficrs pause

cto o d pood ncicw^sen'e^

TJEd ER^rrc Ws: fyoepark5-4500

1132 E. 55th Street

HYde Park 3-8372