SG elects Fortier president; by-law amendment adopted

New officer’s for the 1954-55 Student Government were the principal item of business for the first meeting of the new SG assembly last Tuesday.

Al Fortier (ISL-col) was elected president of SG. Other officers elected were Emil John Writedns illegal, eight ballots void

A major controversy in the re- Asked why he didn’t petition cent Student Government elec- and register as an official candison (ISL-col), vice-president; Sabina Wagner (ISL-col), secretary; and Pat Parker (ISLbus), treasurer.

An amendment to the SG by-laws was adopted which provides that any party receiving 25 per cent of the total vote in an SG election and holding a seat in the assembly is entitled to a committee-at-large, and thu S to a representative on the SG executive council. This gives the Student Representative party a seat on the council, which it would not otherwise have had.

The former by-law provided that any party with 20 per cent of the seats in SG was entitled to a committee-at-large. Clark Kucheman (ISL-FTS) proposed an amendment whereby this requirement could be waived by a two-thirds vote of the assembly. ,

Photo by Tipton

Al Fortier, newly-elected Student Government president, discussing SG activities with members Jan Porter and Paul Bresiow.

tions centered around the three seats in the Medical school. Although three positions were open to Med school candidates, SRP ran none, and ISL had only two.

After the ballots were counted it was reported that eight of the Med school ballots had been counted as void because each had the name of Fred Solomon written in. Solomon thereupon contested the ruling that the ballots were invalid and asked for the rule which governed write-ins.

The rule governing write-ins, according to Jim Handler, chairman of the SG election and rules committee, is as follows: “Any writing on a ballot shall render the ballot void.” This rule is interpreted by the E and R committee to cover any and all writing.

Anderson wants UC support:

ISL wins election

tells why Douglas did not get here

Douglas Anderson, Senator Douglas’ Illinois representative, denied categorically that he had ever spurned the support of the Independent

date, Solomon replied:

“For personal reasons I did not know until late last week that I could spend any time in Student Government.

“In this context,” he added, “writing means extraneous remarks, defamatory remarks after a candidate’s name, and the like. It does not mean ‘no write-in votes allowed.’ I assumed a democratic election would allow a voter to vote for candidates of his choice, whether or not their names appeared on the ballot.”

At the Student Government meeting last Tuesday, Jerry Zisook moved that Solomon be seated as the third Med school delegate. Eli Stein immediately challenged that the motion was out of order and suggested that the ruling could be brought up in Student - Faculty - Administration court. The motion was declared out of order by the chair.

Award Fulbright to Towle at last

in 42 seat landslide

voters of Illinois and groups at the University of Chicago.

Anderson maintained that the only reason that Douglas was unable to appear on campus was that Douglas had previously scheduled meetings with the IVI in the fifth, second, and seventh wards that same

For the first time in Student Government history a political party captured all but three seats, as the Independent Students League won 42 of 45 contested positions in the all-campus election last week.

Student Representative party candidates were elected to fill one position in the college, one in the social sciences division, and one in the federated theological schools. There were no independent candidates on this year’s slate.

This election, described by Clive Gray (ISL), last year’s SG president, as the “biggest landslide a party ever had,” gave ISL control of SG for the sixth time since ISL’s inception in 1948. •

Two seats in the assembly are vacant. At the first SG meeting held last Tuesday, Al Fortier was elected president, thereby relinquishing his seat as a delegate. The other vacancy is in the medical school, where only two of three seats were filled. SRP had no candidates in this division.

Approximately 32 per cent of the total student body cast about fifteen hundred ballots. This vote is 4% less than the 36% that voted in last year’s election, and 5% less than the record vote of 37% in 1952. Three schools were uncontested, and had a very light

vote this year.

ISL candidates received 62.2% and SRP candidates 37.8% of the total votes cast for individual candidates.

In the following tabulation of the election results by divisions and schools, winning candidates are listed in boldface type.

night. Douglas, he said, “was eager to speak on the campus if an open date could be arranged.” Ralph Fertig, who maintains that Anderson had made the controversial statements in a telephone talk with him, agreed that this was the reason that Douglas could nut appear.

Anderson called it inconceivable that he could have made such remarks. He said he was a founder of the Americans for Democratic Action and had worked on arrangements that were to unite the

IVI with the ADA.

Anderson said that Fertig had “gone off on his own hook” making arrangements for speakers on the strength of Douglas’ name before final arrangements had been made with Anderson.

Fertig and John Gilmore, who made calls to Barratt O'Hara, Democratic incumbent from the second Congressional district, and other notables scheduled to appear at the rally, denied Anderson's allegation.

Dr. Charlotte Towle, who was denied a Fulbright scholarship by the foreign scholarship board in Washington in September of this year, has been granted the Fulbright upon reconsideration of the board. Professor Towle will lecture on generic social case work at the London School of Economics, starting in January.

Dr. Towle, professor of social service administration at UC, is believed to have been originally denied the Fulbright because she urged clemency for the Rosenbergs and because she belonged to an organization advocating aid to the Spanish loyalists.

BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES

(two elected)

Marty Gouterman 31 (ISL)

Gary Friedman 33 (ISL)

Lawrence Lichtenstein 22 (SRP)

Joseph Yavit 21 (SRP)

BUSINESS SCHOOL ’

l’at Parker 11 (ISL)

COLLEGE

Photo by Tipton

SG ballots being counted.

(13 elected)

Jan Metros Al Fortier E. Fukushima Emil Johnson Bob Heavilin Joli Lasker Pete Carmel V. Bickerstaff Jan Porter Ralph Henkle Boh Reichler Bob Kurland Sabina Magner Joan Raphael Carolyn Eggert Dave Bobrow Karl Rodman Noel Perlman Suzanne Friedmann Bob Stein Jean Gourfain Barbara Klein Ann B. Huddleson

444 (ISL) 416 (ISL) 405 (ISL) 383 (LSD 386 (ISL) 371 (ISL) 369 (ISL) 367 (ISL) 366 (SRP) 358 (ISL) 337 (ISL) 336 (ISL) 333 (ISL) 311 (ISL) 307 (SRP) 285 (SRP) 260 (SRP) 259 (SRP) 247 (SRP) 245 (SRP) 238 (SRP)

238 (SRP) 227 (SRP)

University of Chicago, October 29, 1954University debate team tie for first

in tournament; then lose by decision

The Purdue Invitational Debate tournament last weekend ended in a three-way tie for first place between teams of Wake Forest, Notre Dame, and UC. Each of these teams had a record of six victories and two defeats on the basis of a point scoring system. However, the tie was broken in favor of Wake Forest, with Notre Dame second and Chicago third.

Debating the topic: “Resolved: that the United States should extend diplomatic recognition to the Communist government of China,” the UC Student Forum affirmative team of Don Mc Clintock and Roger Bowen won all four of their debates, the only affirmative

FEDERATED THEOLOGICAL SCHOOLS

three elected)

Roland Delattre 88

Clark Kucheman 78

Should apply now to go to Qermany; decision Nov. 15

Applications for the 1955-56 Student Government Frankfurt exchange program may be picked up at the SG box in the Reynolds club, Jan Metros, NSA committee chairman, announced today.

Before November 15 a student committee will meet to select two exchange students to go to Frankfurt next year. These students will receive tuition and room and board scholarships at the German school.

- Qualifications include a g o o d academic record, experience in the extra-curriculum, and willingness to participate in German student life. Applicants will be interviewed by the selection committee.

C. Smith

(ISL) (ISL)

63 (SRP)

Lon Speer 57 (SRP)

GRADUATE LIBRARY SCHOOL (one elected)

Jerry O’Mara 15 (ISL)

Barbara Birthwright 7 (SRP)

HUMANITIES

(four elected)

Jerry Zisook Louis Schaefer Romeyn Taylor Jim Camp

Doris Cooperson Dale Chapman Palmer Pinney Jerrold Levy

LAW SCHOOL

Harold Ward

B. Vogel fa nger George Stone Ward Wright Michael Gordon

58 (ISL)

55 (ISL)

49 (ISL)

45 (ISL)

40 (SRP)

39 (SRP)

36 (SRP)

35 (SRP)

(three elected)

110 (ISL)

85 (ISL)

71 (ISL)

67 (SRP)

62 (SRP)

MEDICAL SCHOOL Norman Rose 7 (ISL)

Daniel Offer 6 (ISL)

See ‘ISL,’ page 5

team to do so. Their victims were Michigan State, Illinois, Boston, and Notre Dame.

For the negative, UC debaters Joe Engel and Edward Renshaw defeated Pittsburgh and the University of Kentucky, and lost to Indiana and Southern Illinois. In the final round, the judge, in violation of tournament tradition, allowed the decision to be made by a Purdue girls’ speech class who witnessed the debate. The girls voted 15 to 13 for the opposition.

The score sheet of the judge had indicated a tie, a situation in which the verdict ordinarily goes to tile negative, since the affirmative bears the burden of proof and is bound to demonstrate some advantage for its side.

“The success of Chicago in the 16-team tourney was based upon its previous analysis of the question rather than on speaking skill,” stated Marv Phillips, Forum director. “Many of the issues which the team had rejected as indefensible in their preparation for the meet were found to be the basis of opposition arguments. Our prior determination of the

weaknesses in these arguments gave the UC team a considerable advantage.

“It appeared,” he added, “that most of the other teams had built cases upon shades of meaning in the topic itself, intending to surprise their opponents, rather than upon real life attitudes on the question. Since most teams anticipated such tactics the element

of surprise lay solely with the Chicago team which had followed the latter course.”

The next tournament Chicago will attend is to be held at Brandley on November 19. In the meantime debates with the larger colleges are being schduled on the UC campus to give the student body an opportunity to see the debate team.

University debaters, who participated in a tournament at Purdue university Saturday. From left to right, Roger Bowen, Don Mc Clintock, Marvin Phillips (director of debate) and Edward Renslow. Pag* 2

THE CHICAGO MAROON

October 29, 1954

Calendar

Friday, Oct. 29

S^jbath service and fireside discussion on religious service in the Buddhist tradition sponsored by Hillel, 5715 Woodlawt Service starts at 7:45 p.m., fireside at 8 30 p.m. Guest of the evening is Rev. G. M. Kubose of the Chicago Buddhist church.

Halloween party sponsored by Channing club at Fenn house, 5638 Woodlawn. Begins at 9 p.m.

Saturday, Oct. 30

Folk concert — Pete Seeger, Bill Broonzy, Sonny Terry, in Mandel Hall, ' t?30 p.m. Tickets at box office.

Chamber music recital will be held in Ida Noyes by the Musical Society. No admission charge. Starts at 8 p.m.

Sunday, Oct. 31

India association presents the Dewali festival commemorating the annual Indian new year celebrations. There will be native dances, Indian foods, and films in International House. Admission is 35 cents.

Halloween party and book sale will be held bv Hitchock hall. The party starts at 7:30 p.m. Admission is 20 cents for men, and includes the price of a book. There will be dancing and refreshments in Hitchcock lounge.

Channing club meeting will be held in the Fenn house, 5638 Woodlawn. After the supper at 6:30 p.m., Alan Sawyer, assistant curator of decorative arts at the Art Institute will speak on “Primitive Religion.” Slides will be shown.

What makes a good labor law will be the subject of a lecture by Edward Marciniak. He will talk under the sponsorship of the Calvert club at 4:30 p.m. in the De Sales house.

Green hall will hold a “come-as-yourrepressed-desire” Halloween party between 7:30 p.m. and midnight.

Monday, Nov. 1

The Hug Ivra Hebrew speaking group will meet at 12:30 p.m. in Hillel.

The Hillel folk dance group will meet at 3:30 p.m. in Hillel.

Lecture by Dr. Vogt, minister-emeritus of the 1st Unitarian church on “The Three-fold Imperative.” To take place In the Hull chapel, at 8 p.m., it is cosponsored by the Channing club and , the 1st Unitarian church.

Walgreen lecture on “The Urgency of Our Dilemma,” part of the series on “Our Foreign Economic Policy” will be given in Breasted hall at 8 p.m. The speaker is Clarence B. Randall, former chairman of the US Commission on Foreign Economic Policy.

US-Japanese film Ana-ta-han (The Devil’s Pitchfork) will be shown in International House at 8 p.m.

Tuesday, Nov. 2

Elementary Hebrew class will meet at Hillel at 3:30 p.m.

Concert band rehearsal will be at 8 p.m. in Sunny gym. Bring Instruments. New members are welcome.

Prof. Kermit Eby will lecture for the Veterans Nursery school on “Religion and the Child.” The talk, third in series on child development, will be given in Judd 126 at 8 p.m. Admission is 50 cents.

Canterbury club will meet in Ida Noyes at 7:45 p.m. to discuss the Christian student organization—the how and the why.

Walgreen lecture, given by Clarence B. Randall on “Trade Must Move Towards Liberalization” will be held in Breasted hall at 8 p.m.

“Implementing the Supreme Court Decision” is the subject of the Hitchcock-Snell forum, to be held at 8 p.m.

in Hitchcock lounge. The forum features William R. Ming, professor of law. Wednesday, Nov. 3

Intermediate Hebrew class will meet at Hillel at 1:30 p.m.

Hillel choral group will meet at 3:30 p.m.

Walgreen lecture by Clarence Randall on “Some of the Roadblocks to Trade Liberalization” will be held in Breasted hall at 8 p.m.

There will be English country dancing in Ida Noyes between 8 p.m. and 10. Wear rubber-soled shoes. Instruction for beginners will be provided.

“The Centrality of Worship” will be the subject of Dr. Vogt, sponsored by the Channing club and the 1st Unitarian church. It will take place in Hull chapel. 8 p.m.

Thursday, Nov. 4

A Bell for Adano, American film, will

be shown in the International house at 8 p.m.

Coffee hour at Hillel will feature Meyer Isenberg, of the college humanities staff, who will discuss “Mottel, the Cantor’s Son” by Sholom Aleichem. It will be held at 3:30 p.m. There will be no admission charge.

Father John Stafford, chairman of the department of psychology and psychiatry of the Catholic university in Washington will lecture before the Psychology club at 4:30 p.m. in Swift.

Inter-varsity Christian Fellowship will sponsor group study of gospel according to St. Mark at 7:30 p.m. in Ida Noyes.

A CIO official will give an analysis of what Tuesday’s election means to labor in Ida Noyes east lounge at 7:45 p.m. He is sponsored by the Socialist club. A discussion, and a business meeting of the club will follow.

Students for Democratic Action will hold a discussion of educational and political projects, and will also elect officers at 4:30 p.m. in Soc. Sci. 122 REPEATED

SAVE ’1.06

EACH CALLON

ALEXANDER’S RESTAURANT

1137 E. 3rd St. Mt) 4-5735

COMPLETE DINNERS from 95c

COMPLETE LUNCHEONS from 75c

COMPLETE BREAKFASTS from 38c

Preserve

those important records, lecture notes, papers, and letters

with a permanent, lie-flat, circular PLASTIC BINDING

Capacity: from 1 sheet to 250

Prices: from 25c to $1, including labor.

binding strip, stiff cover

at the HYDE PARK LETTER SHOP

5646 S. Harper Ave. (37) HYde Pork 3-5343

I PERMANENT TYPE

I ANTI-FREEZE

M

Per Callon 

: CASH AND CARRY = I ~ REGULAR PRICE AFTER THIS SALE $2.95 I ; Will Not Boil Away — Lasts All Winter ; B Ml i • £ Prevents Corrosion — Ethylene Glycol Type = GOOD FOR A LIMITED TIME ONLY! = I JEWEL SERVICTSTATIONI | AND PERFECT CAR WASH | = 5601 South Cottage Grove MU 4-9106 I 

What makes a Lucky taste better?

“IT’S TOASTED’’

to taste better!

ALPHABET BLOCKS

FOR ILLITERATES

BUTTERFLY SKIPPING ROPE

FIFTY-DOLLAR , BOY SCOUT KNIFE

Co Dege smokers from coast to coast prefer Luckies to any other brand. Luckies lead, and by a wide margin, according to the latest, biggest college survey. Once again, the No. 1 reason: Luckies taste better. They taste better because Lucky Strike is the cigarette of fine tobacco and “It’s Toasted’* to taste better. “IPs Toasted”—the famous Lucky Strike process—tones up Luckies’ light, mild, goodtasting tobacco to make it taste even better. This explains the Droodle below, which is: Eskimo seminar enjoying Luckies in badly built classroom. Like all real cool people, Eskimos know Luckies taste better. So, get the better-tasting cigarette ... Lucky Strike.

LUCKIES TASTE BETTER

Cleaner, Fresher, Smoother!

COMO

PIZZERIA

1520 E. 55th St.

• Bar-be-cue chicken

• Bar-be-cue ribs

Delivery Anywhere

FA 4-5525

GHOST WITH CINDER IN HIS EYI

DEPRESSED FLEA

COMMITTING SUICIDE

LUCKY

STRIKE

TIC-TAC-TOE KIT

“What’s this?” asks ROGER PRICE* For solution see paragraph above.

m A

Ai.

GOT A LUCKY DROODLE?

If you’ve got a Lucky Droodle in your noodle, send it in. We pay $25 for all we use, and also for many we don t use. Send as many as you like with your descriptive titles to: Lucky Droodle, P. O. Box 67, New York 46, N. Y.

OROODLES, Copyright, 1954, by Roger Price

PRODUCT OF

AMERICA'S LEADING MANUFACTURER OF CIGARBTTB# October 29, 1954

THE CHICAGO MAROON

Page 3

Neff has to wake early to win

weekly MAROON photo prize

How early do UC students get up in the morning?

At least some of them get up early enough to get to Reynolds club by 8:30 a.m.

This was the case last Friday with Richard Neff, a college student who was standing at the door as the club opened in

order to claim the prize in the

Maroon “Know the Quadrangles” contest. He got it, even though Reynolds opens officially at 9, by identifying correctly last week’s

mystery picture. The right answer was the inscription on the fountain in front of Kent. (It appeared

no 7 9071 hyde park theatre ^ss’rd1' student rate 50c

Now playing through Sunday

Exclusive Chicago Showing

Shakespeare and Shaw series number two

Max Reinhardt's production of

A Midsummer Night's Dream with the Mendelssohn music

Shaw's own screen version of his great play

Major Barbara

Wendy Hiller Rex Harrison Robert Newton

NEXT ATTRACTION

Robert Morley

(Consult your newspaper for exact starting date* MOIRA SHEARER

ROBERT HELPMANN and BEN HECHT'S

Tales of Hoffman Spectre of the Rose

May we collar you soon in a smart ARROW Radnor?

With 90% of a shirt’s style up in the collar, the man who wears an Arrow Radnor is smarter than a wet whip.

Choose a Radnor Button-Down (above), a regular Radnor, or Radnor “E”—with eyelets, shown at. right. The Radnor “E” is also available with French Cuffs. They’re all Arrow ... all easy on the eyes a id on the budget. Arrow Radnors sr tart-looking and perfect-fitting in broadcloth prices start at $4.50; in oxford cloth, $5.00 white or colored.

>7

A/IHOW SHIRTS & TIES

UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • CASUAL WEAR

at prices from $4.50

Arrow Radnor

•price.

collar dresses, up your wardrobe —makes it top-style at bottom

that’s the name and we’ve got it.

where are you

This is the new-style Arrow Radnor, and if you’re not wearing one now... you should be. Point those feet our way and let us show you how this soft, rounded

Chicago - Evanston - Oak Park Evergreen - Gary - Joliet - Alton

upside down.) It is not known whether Neff also gets up in time to attend his 8:30 classes.

Three more answers were received by Reynolds desk within an hour of Neff's original arrival. The total of the answers which finally got to the Maroon office is more than fifty. Replies came from every division except the Graduate Library school.

At least five different individuals appeared on the fifth floor of the Administration building this week and asked the Chancellor’s receptionist Beth Kinyon for information about the different class gifts, trying to identify the mystery spot by identifying the date.

The contest, now in its third week, consists of naming correctly the current mystery picture. The first person who brings the right answer to Reynolds club or to the Maroon office wins a carton of cigarettes. This weeks mystery photograph appears at the left.

Berlin U denies LAK statements

A rebuttal of Lawrence A. Kimpton’s statement criticizing the Free University of Berlin which appeared in last week’s Maroon was issued Wednesday by professor Hirsch, the Free University’s president.

Hirsch came to the UC campus as part of his visit to this country for the Bi-centennial celebration of Columbia university.

Hirsch was puzzled by Kimpton’s statement that an “air of fright” surrounds the Free university. "There is no such ‘fright’ surrounding the university,” Hirsch commented, “and as to the endless checking of passports to which Mr. Kimpton referred, passpoets are checked only when you enter the country and when you leave.”

“The Free university has developed by leaps and bounds,” he commented. It now has an exchange program with Stanford and Columbia for professors and witii Stanford, Columbia, and Harvard for students; the Free university was the first German university to give extension courses at night.

The needs of a new university are very large, stated Hirsch, and some are impossible to supply; a great deal of help, however, has come from the US through the Ford and Rockefeller foundations and the State department.

Hirsch said that 40% of the Free university’s students originally came from the Soviet zone of Berlin, and a few commute regularly between the Soviet zone and the university.

Organ concert at Rockefeller service

Richard Luecke, a candidate for the Ph.D. in philosophy at UC and Pastor of Our Savior’s Lutheran Church, Chicago, will preach the sermon at the ninth annual reformation vespers at Rockefeller chapel, Sunday at 8 p.m.

The 16th century liturgical service, sung in Gregorian by the Valparaiso University choir, Valparaiso, Indiana, will be preceded by an organ concert at 7:30 p.m., played by Heinrich Fleischer, UC organist.

Mead says tolerance forced on Protestants

“Religious toleration was universal in the English colonies by the middle of the 18th century, but Protestantism did not contribute to this religious liberty. It was forced into it,” concluded Sidney E. Mead, associate professor of history of American Christianity.

Mead spoke in the first of a series of four Walgreen foundation lectures on “The shape of Protestantism in America,” last Monday. This first lecture, “From coercion to persuasion,” dealt with the development of religious toleration in early colonial America.

Mead pointed out that early Protestant aims to establish religious coercion in the new world were frustrated by a variety of outside influences. The self-interest of individuals caused them to forget the cries of the church when it interfered with their personal ambitions; the vast spaces of the new land made banishment an enlargement of opportunity rather than a confinement; and England exerted pressure for a more tolerant attitude on religious matters in New England.

Besides these influences, “a strange alliance developed between the rationalists and the pietist revivalists which forewarded the cause of religious

C'shop drops all hoars after five

C-shop hours have again been limited to 7:30 a.m.-5 p.m. Lack of student support was given by Robert M. Strozier, dean of students, as the reason for the scheduling of no evening hours this year.

Strozier said the C-shop, located off Mandel corridor near the Commons, lost too much money last spring to allow it to continue to remain open after 5.

Evening hours have lost money since they were originated in January of 1952 explained Mrs. Alma Baugh, supervisor of Hutchinson commons.

Patronage dwindled during last year, and by the spring quarter the shop was losing too much money for the administration to continue to underwrite the loss.

freedom,” Mead said. This alliance was purely practical and not theoretical. The rationalist approach to religious freedom, based on the intellectual conception that all religions good enough to preserve peace and order have a right to exist, could not be reconciled with that of the revivalists who, while having no interest in conformity, had no intellectual interest in anything.

Nevertheless, Mead continued, this alliance, combined with the earlier factors of self-interest, vast spaces, and pressure from the old world, brought American Protestantism—-in spite of itself — still further down the road toward religious toleration.

’New year in Nov.' festival

A “New Year in November” atmosphere will prevail at the Dewali festival 4 p.m. Sunday in the assembly hall of International house.

Featured for the afternoon will be movies pertaining to the meaning of Dewali, authentic Indian foods, and native Indian dances by Mehta Von Essen and Nina Guha.

Sponsored by the India Association, this Dewali festival celebrates the opening of the new year on the Indian lunar calendar, and is open to all those wishing to learn about the festival.

Dewali. the only national Indian holiday, is a traditional time of gaiety and friendliness and marks the end of the Indian fiscal year. Through all parts of India on the night of Dewali candles are placed on streets, over doorways, and on roof-tops.

Segregation decision topic of Ming talk

“Implementing the Supreme Court decision” will be the subject of a talk by William R. Ming, Jr., professor of law, at 8 p.m. Tuesday in Hitchcock lounge. The meeting is open to the public. _

Professor Ming recently took part in the litigation of the segregation decision of the Supreme Court.

All organizations: register by 'Nov. 3

All student groups seeking recognition as student organizations at UC must register in the Student Activities Office by Wednesday. All organizations not registered by that date will not be listed in the student directory.

To secure recognition, an organization must complete the registration forms issued by the activities office and must have ten or more members who are students in good standing at the University.

Students' Favorite

LAUNDROMAT

For the Fust Six Years 1. Efficient Laundromat Service

2. Shirts - Flat Work All Laundry Services

3. Lowest Prices in

Hyde Pork

Come In and See Our Newly Remodeled Store with the LATEST Equipment

UNIVERSITY LAUNDROMAT 1376 E. 55th St. PL 2-9097 Page 4 THE CHICAGO MAROON %

October 29, 1954

Issued once weekly by the publisher. The Chicago Maroon, at the publication office, 5706 South University Avenue, Chicago 37, Illinois. Telephones: Editorial Office, Midway 3-0800, Ext. 1010; Business and Advertising Offices, Midway 3-0800, Ext. 1009. Distributed free of charge, and subscriptions by mail, $3 per year. Business Office hours: 1 to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday.

Allen R. Janger editor-in-chief

Richard E. Ward managing editor

Editorial

MAROON prints all news

For quite a while now it has become less fashionable to revile the Maroon for faults which range from a mere vicious slanting of one story to hatching of vast conspiracies designed to subvert the government (SG, of course).

So we are sorry to note that once again we have to defend ourselves for doing something which it is our duty and our stated purpose to do: provide an unbiased coverage for all the news in an unbiased fashion, no matter how much the content or what we write might please or displease us.

We refer here to the story about Senator Paul H. Douglas which appeared in the last issue of our paper. We are told that this story is detrimental to the cause of the senator’s re-election.

We might remind our critics that the Maroon has not declared itself either for or against Douglas, that even if we were supporting the senator editorially, the practice of printing or suppressing news in line with orfe’s editorial policy i§ more suited to certain Chicago metropolitan papers than to ourselves. If the facts printed in the story are the truth, then it is the actions of the persons involved that do, or do not, reflect upon the various personalities.

We still propose to print all the news which we believe to be of interest to the student body. If this means stepping on the toes of particular interests, then we can only hope that the bones involved are sound enough to stand it.

from the Democratic and Republican parties. In many cases, candidates and their friends put tremendous pressures on members of our Board of Directors in an attempt to Influence them. (You can be sure such pressures had no effect.) Never has the IVI endorsement been so eagerly sought as this year. Many candidates told us frankly that if the usual close county vote prevails the IVI endorsement will determine the outcome of several county races.

Not only did Joseph Meek and Senator Douglas eagerly seek the IVI endorsement, but Senator Douglas has given full cooperation to our various district campaign committees. He has gone out of his way to appear at some of our public meetings. (Last February he flew from Washington to appear with Adlai Stevenson and Arch Carey at our 10th anniversary celebration.

And our members have enthusiastically supported Senator Douglas because^ of his intelligence and devotion, because of his great fights on off-shore oil, his selfless attempts to wake up Americans to the need for economic planning to avert depression, and his strong support of the UN and economic aid to underdeveloped areas. It is a great record.

We hope that students, faculty and all others associated with your great university will go on giving support to America’s Number One Senator, just as they have in the past.

Leon M. Despres, Choirman

James V. Cunningham. Jr.

Executive Director I.V.I.

agreed to fly in from Detroit for the occasion and speak for the candidates. Mr. Cass initiated arrangements for procuring the Field House, and had received the consent of the proper administration personnel.

Before submitting a story on the meeting to the MAROON, on Wednesday, Oct. 13, I again checked with Miss Malone at the Democratic Party. She assured me that all publicity could be issued. That evening Mr. Anderson got in touch with me. He Informed me that the Democratic Party officials had made an honest and innocent mistake in scheduling Douglas for our proposed gathering. The Democratic Party, he explained, has priority over all other appointments, but this priority can only be utilized for Its ward meetings, and could not be extended to other groups such as ours. Mr. Anderson then made those statements which have formed the basis of controversy on last Friday’s article.

I cancelled the MAROON story which announced our proposed Mass Meeting, and, in so doing, urged the editors of the MAROON to pursue the matter no further. Nothing appeared that week. The following week, I was Interviewed for the story. By then, rumors and reporters had it that the remarks derogatory to UC and to IVI were the Senator’s and not those of his assistant. I urged the MAROON to make It clear that there was no reason to believe that the stated positions were those of Mr. Douglas. There is still no evidence of the Senator’s holding such beliefs on the matter,

and his welcoming of IVI support in the precincts and in his remarks at meetings would tend to indicate a difference of opinion.

Mr. Anderson has subsequently issued Identical remarks to a women connected with the IVI on the North Side. This woman reported the comments to the Political Action Personnel of the IVI IVI has had the good sense to discuss this problem of a highly paced advisor rejecting the support of liberals rather than denouncing those who report such discouraging remarks.

Ralph D. Fertig

“Wave You Heard” THE PIZZA KID is on 63rd Featuring Pizza at its Finest Bar-B-Q Back Ribs - Chicken Spaghetti - Ravioli • Mustaccoli Italian Sausage or Beef Sandwiches Kosher Corned Beef

Daily: 11 a.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday: 4 p.m. to 1 a.m. “We Deliver”

DO 3-9777 1125 E. 63rd

E

B

Letters...

SFD protests article

In last week’s issue of the Maroon there appeared an article entitled •'Douglas Cancels Rally Date.’’ The inaccuracies in the article were so flagrantly shocking that we. the Executive Committee of Students for Douglas, would like to set the record straight.

First, the article states that a mass rally had been “scheduled on campus for Monday evening, October 18,” at which Senator Douglas and other notables were to appear. No such meeting had ever been screduled by Students for Douglas. The Mr. Fertig that you mentioned is not and never has been a member of our organization.

The article went on to say that “the director of the Speakers Bureau of the Democratic Party in Cook County had told members of the Students for Douglas organization on campus to go ahead with publicity on Douglas’ appearance.” No member of Students for Douglas ever spoke with the Speakers Bureau. We have had no contact with them, whatsoever.

The article called Mr. Douglas Anderson the “administrative assistant to Douglas.” Mr. Anderson does not and never has held this position. Mr. Anderson is the Illinois representative of the Senator.

The article attributed to Mr. Anderson, the statement “Campaigning at the University of Chicago is the kiss of death” and further stated that “he expressed the wish that people at the University and the Independent Voters of Illinois, would not endorse Douglas,” allegedly because the Senator wished to disassociate himself from their “.radical political elements.”

Mr. Andrson has assured us that he has never made such a statement to any person, and that they are not his views. We can assure you that he has never made such a statement to Students for Douglas. Anyone who knows the Senator and is familiar with his record knows that they are not the views of Senator Douglas. All one need do is pick up a phone and call Mr. Anderson (as we did upon seeing the article), to confirm this.

Senator Douglas has spoken in this campaign before numerous IVI meetings and has the whole-hearted support of that organization. Only a week ago Tuesday he addressed an IVI meeting at their Hyde Park headquarters at 1412 E. 55th Street.

The Senator has always been proud of his more than 26 year association with the University of Chicago, and has openly welcomed the support of its students and faculty, many of whom are now actively campaigning for his re-election.

This past Monday a representative of Douglas* campaign headquarters appeared at a Students for Douglas meeting on campus to enlist the service of students as poll-watchers, etc. The Senator’s wife, Mrs. Emily Taft Douglas, former Congresswoman - at - large from Illinois spoke on campus this past Tuesday at another sponsored meeting. Pick up any one of the numerous campaign pamphlets put out by Douglas’ campaign headquarters and you will discover what prominence the Senator’s long tenure at the U. of C. is given. Are these the ways one goes about “disassociating Douglas” name from the University?

Summing up: the entire article In last week’s Maroon was from beginning to end a long list of prevarications, some of which, for the sake of conserving space, we have even neglected to mention in this letter. The atricle was not submitted by Students for Douglas, or by any member thereof. Students for Douglas knew nothing about the article until the Maroon published it. We are at a loss to know why the name of our organization was mentioned in the article. It sounded as though inspired and written by a “Student for Meek.”

* Don Coss

David A. Lone

Richard Stevens

Sy Dresner

Executive Committee

Students for Douglas

IVI supports Douglas

We read with considerable Inter* st your story about the cancellation of Senator Douglas’ campus appearance, and particularly the paragraph dealing with a statement by Mr. Douglas Anderson, who heads the Senator’s Chicago office, in which Mr. Anderson is quoted as saying the Senator would get more votes without the endorsement of the Independent Voters of Illinois than he will with it.

If Mr. Anderson said these words, you can be sure he was not speaking for the Senator, and he was talking nonsense. A few facts make this clear.

Both Joseph Meek and Senator Douglas actively sought the endorsement of the IVI, as did ninety other candidates

INTERNATIONAL HOUSE MOVIES

Assembly Hall, Monday and Thursday Evenings at 8:30 P.M.

Monday, Nov. 1 — ANA - TA - HAN (The Devil’s Pitchfork) (Japanese American)

Thursday, Nov. 4—BELL FOR ADANO (American)

Editor’s note: The story, appearing in last week’s Maroon, was written from information supplied by Ralph Fertig, at that time, chairman of the citizen’s committee for Barrett O’Hara. Douglas Anderson was not available for comment up to the time of publication.

The Maroon apologizes that this was not made clear in the story or headline as printed. For Fertig’s comments on the story read below.

Our apologies also go to Frank Mc Culloch, Senator Douglas’ administrative assistant, whose title was given to Douglas Anderson, the senator’s Illinois representative.

Student explains Douglas story

A great deal of confusion and concern has been called to my attention with reference to last week’s MAROON article on the abandoned Mass Meeting for Senator Douglas. While we who are engaged in electioneering may doubt the practical advantage of such a story — and I had grave misgiving’s about its appearance — the story was thoroughly accurate in its detail.

It is a sad commentary on Liberals that so many are prepared to throw to the winds freedom of the press when it ill suits a liberal candidate to have a story featured on him which is otherwise relevant to the paper’s readership. The continued attacks upon the Integrity of my co-workers in the campaign for Douglas, O’Hara, and Lohman compel me to explain in greater detail the entire situation which led up to the printing of last Friday’s story.

After a conference with Director of Student Activities, William Birenbaum. held Tuesday, October 12, the Chairman of Students for Douglas, Don Cass, and I, speaking for the Committee for Barratt O’Hara agreed to co-sponsor the two candidates with other big name speakers at a Mass Meeting for the campus. Mr. Cass agreed to make arrangements for a location, and I was to contact Douglas and O’Hara. Mr. Douglas and his administrative assistant, Mr. Anderson, were both out of town. I was informed by their office that the Democratic party also schedules Douglas, and so I contacted the appropriate personnel there. Miss Jerry Malone, head of the Speakers Bureau at the Democratic Party Headquarters assured me we could have Douglas for Monday evening, October 18. Barratt O’Hara arranged his schedule for that same evening, and Mr. Emil Mazey, Secretary-Treasurer of the UAW-CIO

B a*

* s

I

B

B

B

I g

E E

SCHNEEMANN’S

Red Door Book Shop

1328 East 57th Street

NOrmal 7-6111

Announcement of Our Winter

the book-cellar

Weekdays 10:00 A.M. to

Sundays 2:00 P.M. to

the used book room

4:00 P.M. to 10:00

Hours

I

E

B

B

10:00

10:00

P.M.

6 I

B

M

c

C

B

E

The shop will Hose WEDNESDAY evenings

I B
w

 

| RE - ELECT |

I SEN. MARSHALL !

IKORSHAKI

| 5TH SENATORIAL DISTRICT I

| A Progressive | i and f

| Liberal Legislator |

| VOTE ‘YES’ ON THE BLUE BALLOT |

B “

 

TOMORROW NIGHT FOLK CONCERT SAT., OCTOBER 30

PETE SEEGER • BILE BROONZY • SONNY TERRY

Mandel Hall 8:30 P.M. Gen. Admission $1.00

(57th & University) ' Seats on Sale at Box. Office

Sponsored by the V of C delegation to the National Student Association Page 5

October 29, 1954 TH ^ CHICAGO MAROON Support Mc Carthy censure

The campus Robin Hood club last week initiated its program of support for the Mc Carthy censure, as recommended bv the Senate Watkins subcommittee.

"The Robin Hood club was activated on this issue,” said Suzanne Friedmann, Robin Hood secretary, “because of our concern with the formation of the ‘national rally for Joe Mc Carthy’ scheduled for November 11, and nfter the Senate convenes to conbecause of the large response to

the rally.”

The Robin Hood projects include soap and baggage tag campaign, consisting of hotel-size bars of soap wired to baggage tags which are stamped, “Don’t Whitewash Mc Carthy—Vote Censure.”

What have VICEROYS got that other filter tip cigarettes haven’t got ?

THE ANSWER IS 20,000 FILTERS IN EVERY VICEROY TIP

Inside every Viceroy tip is a vast network of 20,000 individual filters to filter your smoke over and over again. You get only the full, rich taste of Viceroy’s choice tobaccos and Viceroys draw so freely.

Yes, you get Viceroy’s remarkable new tip with 20,000 individual filters plus king-size length for only a penny or two more than cigarettes without filters.

Long-time friend of UC succumbs in tragic death

The death-bell tolled last week as a silent band of cutters armed with saws and ladders beheaded UC’s friend of long standing — the ad-covered tree in front of Woodworth’s bookstore.

At 9:30 a.m. on Oct. 19 the tree’s branches creaked their last and fell to the ground, temporarily blocking 57th street traffic until the branches could be hewn and carted away to their final resting place.

The move was made to avert the imminent collapse of the late ly decayed tree upon Woodworth’s during anticipated winter windstorms.

The tree was decapitated, rather than cut down entirely, public opinion deeming that the ad-covered trunk should stand. The trunk, too, will be gone within three years. It is now completely dead, and bark will begin to drop off during the coming year.

When no new branches appeared last spring, the tree was diagnosed as dead; cause of death: thirst.

Having grown in its late location since 1893, the tree enjoyed a

world wide reputation and has been granted coverage in such publications as International News report. Life, the Christian Science Monitor, and Time * WORLD’S LARGEST-SELLING FILTER TIP CIGARETTE

New King-Size

Filter Tip

Vicerot^y I

* I e'-e TTt# 1/

Only a Penny or Two Moro than Cigarette* Without Filter*

Paul Douglas' wife describes programs;.attacks administration

Congress “should act like the good doctor — see the symptoms, diagnose, and cure the economic pneumonia. Acts, not words, achieve results in economics.” So Senator Paul Douglas’ economic program was described by his wife, Emily Taft Douglas, in a speech at a Students for Douglas meeting Tuesday afternoon.

Senator Douglas, she said, believes that “this administration has been obtuse about human welfare.” Several issues she mentioned as mismanaged included housing and tidelands oil.

There is a need for more public housing; the housing bill written in 1939 by Senator Douglas and another senator has had its

Illness postpones Spencer lectures

The recent illness of William H. Spencer, distinguished service professor emeritus of the school of business, has postponed the opening of the University college distinguished service lecture series from October 29 to November 26.

Eugene M. K. Geiling, distinguished service professor of pharmacology, will speak on “the impact of the atomic age on biochemical research” on November 26 in the Woodrow Wilson room, 116 S. Michigan avenue, for the University college.

provisions for homes cut by twothirds, she stated. More schools, as well as more houses, are needed.

Senator Douglas “wanted natural resources to help the human resources,” proposing that tidelands oil wealth be used for education “to light the lamp of knowledge”; off-shore oil was instead granted to four states.

During the question and answer period, Mrs. Douglas was queried as to her husband’s voting in favor of outlawing the Communist party. She answered that her husband felt that “to belong to the Communist party is to belong to an active conspiracy to overthrow the government. It is a direct threat.”

Hard times party tonight

Psi Upsilon’s traditional hard times party will be held tonight from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. Dick Gerwin’s band will furnish musical entertainment.

All students are invited, with or without dates. There is no admission, but visitors must wear hard-times costumes, said the fraternity.

Mr. Spencer’s lecture on “Recent trends in the relationship between government and business” tween government and business” will close the series in April.

ITALIAN FIESTA PIZZERIA

Special Pizza ’A Sausage % Anchovy ’A Pepper ’A Mushroom

1427 E. 67th MU 4 ^

FREE DELIVERY TO U. of C. STUDENTS On orders over $2

Quick Courteous Service

TABLE SERVICE

11 A.M. to 3 A.M

7 Days a Week

DELIVERY SERVICE

5 P.M. to 3 A.M 1 Approval deadline set for special honors applicants

The deadline for approval of special honor proposals in the college has been set for January 7.

All students wishing to be graduated with special honors in any area of the college should consult with the chairman of the staff in which they wish to do special honors work, John P. Netherton, assistant dean in the college, said this week.

The prerequisites for admittance to the special honors program is a B average with no grade lower than a C. An essay is usually required to satisfy the departmental requirements for special honors. The requirements may vary slightly from staff to staff, however.

The honors, if achieved, will appear on the convocation listings and as a part of the student’s permanent transcript.

Over 120 students have taken the honors program since it was first initiated in 1947, according to Netherton.

Complete Systems From ^^ A

Come in end Listen to the Jensen Bathtub.

lion

TRADE INS

On Hi-Fidelity Components at Audiophile Net

Everything for the Hi-Fi Fan— cabinets, audio unit*, tuners, amplifiers and speakers—plus we will take any radio or phonograph in trade. At Lund you'll find the finest of equipment at reasonable prices. Come in todayl

General honors are also awarded without special wvk to students having a half-A, half-B average or better in the college.

TERMS

LUND Company

5236 Blackstone

Open Evenlngt Including Sunday TUI 8 P. M.

MU 4-5300

WE BUY USED EQUIPMENT

(from page 1) PHYSICAL SCIENCES (four elected)

Byron Rainey 88 (ISL) Mario Baur 73 (ISL) Robert Giedt 71 (ISL) Eli Stein 70 (ISL) Robert March 53 (SRP) Morris Hirsch 47 (SRP) M. Ingberman 47 (SRP) M. Prastein 42 (SRP). SOCIAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION . Dorothy Ingersoll 8 (ISL) C. Schpoont 7 (ISL) SOC IAL SCIENCES (ten elected) C. Gray 138 (ISL) D. Utley 132 (ISL), B. Mac Lach Ian 127 (ISL); A. Solomon 126 (ISL) J. Stanford 124 (ISL) M. Baron 120 (ISL) D. ( ass 118 (ISL) P. Breslow 103 (SRP); J. S. Burbach 102 (ISL)! D. Weiss 102 (ISL) Robert Trees 98 (SRP) A. C. Graff 97 (SRP)I Milt Kotler 95 (SRP)! Rhoda Sadigur 91 (SRP)] C. Swenson 95 (SRP)] Don Anderson 92 (SRP) Jim Flynn 92 (SRP): Lucius Meine 83 (SRP) Robert Thomas 83 (SRP)] October 29, 1954

THE CHICAGO MAR^ ON

Page 6

Lyric theatre opens season with'Norma'

The Chicago Lyric' theatre, which restores resident grand opera to Chicago, opens its season Sunday at the Civic opera house with Bellini’s Norma. Tickets ma.y be purchased at the box office from noon to 6 p.m.

Rosanna Carteri as she will appear in La Boheme Saturday evening, November 13.

Appleton and Field concert interesting but not outstanding

A program of two-piano music fs not usually a thrilling prospect, and it must be admitted that the first University concert last Friday, a recital by Vera Appleton and Michael Field, was considerably more interesting than one would expect.

Their rendition of Brahms’ Variations on a Theme by Haydn (better known in its subsequent orchestral version), after a

rather shaky start exhibited some fine and sententious playing, albeit with frequent yubatos.

Stravinsky’s Concerto for Two Pianos Without Accompaniment, which followed, was flashily and noisily performed; it uses the instruments almost entirely percussively. with the usual “clashing harmonies and biting rhythms’’ of the composer’s later style. The first movement is a rather effective display piece, but the tepid and aimless slow movement and the rcpe.titive third became very tiresome with their unpianistic conception.

Although the Bartok pieces from Mikrokosmos were particularly well done, the high point of the recital was, curiously, n o t originally written for two pianos, not was it on the printed program.

Even considering the limitations of the literature, one would

have preferred hearing fewer piano versions of orchestra pieces. The 19th - century - style arrangement of a Bach chorale prelude which served as an encore rather accentuated this impression.

This was a remarkable arrangement of Debussy's Fetes by Maurice Ravel, which the duo played with much spirit and feeling, although it could hardly replace the orchestral version. Ravel’s own Feria was considerably less effective.

Bob Bloch

Playwrights Theatre Club 1205 N. Dearborn

CHEKHOV'S

the Sunday at 7:30

Tues, thru Sat., 8:30

Memberships or reserv WU ations available at Student Government Ticket Agency or call

WHitehall 3-227?

'La Ronde' tricky trifle

Nature, working through the cold and inscrutable judgment of a film booker, has presented during the past week at the Hyde Park theatre an almost perfectly controlled cinematic experiment.

Max Ophuls’ La Ronde and Thorold Dickinson’s Gaslight are both adapted from plays. Both are approximajfcely the same magnitude in significance: Gaslight is based bn frankly melodramatic premises, while La Ronde is from Schnitzler’s tracky psychological trifle.

They differ simply in that La Ronde is a distressingly poor film while Gaslight is a work of consummate craftmanship.

The problem of understanding why one film is a .failure and the other is not, in this case, resolves itself into seeing what characteristic stylistic elements, what approach to subject matter and the film medium each director has utilized.

Ophuls doomed himself to almost certain failure by the use of devices that just never seem to be convincing on the screen.

Chief among there was the use of a “Mr. Fate” character to further the action. And it wasn’t merely the off-key- singing and horrendous posturing of Mr. Walbrook that caused this.

Placement of the action in the context of a never-never-land betrays the most fundamental principle of convincing cinema.

The basis for Dickinson’s style lies in the realization that any characters or devices interposed between direct visual presentation of the action tend to destroy the unity and rhythm of the film.

Dickinson is a master of using objects in a way that illuminates and interacts with the world of character and action.

In the opening sequence, the slashed furniture a demented murderer leaves in the wake of his search reflects the chaos of his mind, the frenzy of his action, and the condition of his victim, now dying as just such a bundle of useless rubbish.

Again in the flickering of the

gaslight as the husband leaves the attic we feel the emotional fluttering of his wife’s fears, doubts and anguish as she lies on hei' bed. In themselves trifles, these devices become significant when they make up the complex seam less texture of the film. Perhaps it is this element of not being told everything, of participating in more than a passive way, that sets the difference between good and poor cinema.

F. G. Ternenyl

 

RENTALS

Cameras

Tape Recorders

. Slide Projectors Movie Projectors

We are pleased to offer the above equipment on liberal rental terms, by day or week.

PHOTOGRAPHIC DEPT.

UNIVERSITY of CHICAGO

When you pause...make it count...have a Coke

BOOKSTORE

5802 Ellis Avenue

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OP THE COCA COLA COMPANY BY

The Coco-Colo Bottling Company of Chicogo, Inc.

i registered trade mark. © 1953, The Coca-Cola Compaq

t

i^**

Paul Robeson Sings Tonight

hew "Silvered-Tip" writes the way you do fine, medium or broad ... with Au* changing points. Re(fills available in blue, red, / green or black ink. Goto 1 Paper-Mate Pen today!

at the Pershing Hotel

 Mm approve I Ink can’t #m< er transfer ~~

* Can't Wa/

Silvered-Tip refills... 49f

A Program Devoted Exclusively to Songs by Paul Robeson

PRESENTED BY THE CHICAGO COMMITTEE FOR A PAUL ROBESON CONCERT

Tonight — Friday, Oct. 29th

Admission $1.00

6400 S. Cottage Grove October 29, 1954

THE CHICAGO MAROON

Records fall as runners beat Albion;

Team, course, and attendance marks set

by Pau! Baptist

The UC harriers resumed their winning ways last Saturday with

Booters lose

a resounding 17-46 triumph over Albion College on the Albion home course Saturday.

Walt Deike finished far ahead of the pack in a brilliant 21:28 lime for the four mile course. Jim Flynn moved into the number two spot with an excellent time of 21:57. and Art Omuhundro, only two seconds behind, got third.

Chapman of Albion finished fourth, closely escorted by Lowell Hawkinson, Ted Fishman, Tihkie Heyns and Paul Baptist to put the clincher on another decisice victory for the UC gang.

Highlights of the meet were:

1) Walt Deike's sparkling 21:28 time which set a new course record for four miles.

2) The Chicago win which snapped the harriers’ longest losing

CAMPUS FOOD SHOP Delicatessen - Rakery Leave your party orders with us

1369 E. 57th St. Midway 3-7229

streak in two years: one game.

3) For the first time in UC history seven Chicago runners finished with times inside 23 minutes.

4) The largest crowd ever to attend a UC cross country race was recorded when 300 young Michigan high school runners stayed after their race to watch the college meet.

Tomorrow more records may crumble as the UC harriers meet Wright and Wisconsin State at 12 noon in Washington park.

Navy Pier defeated Chicago 3-2 last Saturday in the best played soccer game seen on Stagg field so far this season.

The Illini started at a rapid pace and repeatedly threatened to score early in the game. Even so it was Maroon forward John Godfrey who drew first blood with a shot from fifteen yards out.

Only minutes later Navy Pier replied with a goal scored after a corner kick, and the half ended without further tallies. Godfrey almost scored again on a penalty kick, but the boot was brilliantly

Advertisement — Advertisement — Advertisement — Advertisement

On Campus w&W i

(Author 0/ “Barefoot Boy With Che9k^ tic.)

HOME, SWEET HOMECOMING

A great number of people have been asking me lately, “What is Homecoming?” Yesterday, for example, as I walked from my house to the establishment of Mr. Sigafoos, the local lepidopterist where 1 had left a half dozen luna moths to be mounted — a distance of no more than three blocks — 1’11 wager that well over a thousand people stopped me and said, "What is Homecoming?”

Well, what with company coming for dinner and the cook down with a recurrence of breakbone fever, I could not tarry to answer their questions. “Read my column next week,” I cried to them. “I’ll tell all about Homecoming.” With that I brushed past and raced home to baste the mallard and apply poultices to the cook, who, despite my unending ministrations, expired quietly during the night, a woman in her prime, scarcely 108 years old. Though her passing grieved me, it was some satisfaction to be able to grant her last wish — to be buried at sea — which is no small task when you live in Pierre, South Dakota.

With the dinner guests fed and the cook laid to her watery rest, I put out the cat and turned to the problem of Homecoming.

First of all, let us define Homecoming. Homecoming is a weekend when old graduates return to their alma maters to see a football game, ingest great quantities of food and drink, and inspect each other's bald spot!#

This occasion is marked by the singing of old songs, the slapping of old backs, and the frequent utterance of such outcries as “Harry, you old polecat!” or "Harry, you old rooster!” or "Harry, you old wombat!” or "Harry, you old mandrill!” All old grads are named Harry.

During Homecoming the members of the faculty behave with unaccustomed animation. They laugh and smile and pound backs and keep shouting, "Harry, you old retriever!” These unscholariy actions are performed in the hope that the old grads, in a transport of bonhomie, will endow a new geology building.

The old grads, however, are seldom seduced. By game time on Saturday, their backs are so sore, their eyes so bleary, and their livers so sluggish that it is impossible to get a kind word out of them, much less a new geology building. "Hmphh!” they snort as the home team completes a 101 yard march to a touchdown. "Call that football? Why, back in my day they’d have been over on the first down. By George, football was football back in those days — not this namby pamby girls game that passes for football today. Why, look at that bench. Fifty substitutes sitting there! Why, in my day, there were eleven men on a team and that was it. When you broke a leg, you got taped up and went right back in. Why, I remember the big game against State. Harry Wallaby, our star quarterback, was killed in the third quarter. I mean he was pronounced dead. But did that stop old Harry? Not on your tintype! Back in he went and kicked the winning drop-kick in the last four seconds of play, dead as he was. Back in my day, they played fool bull, by George!”

Everything, say the old grads, was better back in their day — everything except one. Even the most unreconstructed of the old grads has to admit that back in his day they never had a smoke like today’s vintage Philip Morris — never anything so mild and pleasing, day in day out, at study or at play, in sunshine or in shower, on grassy bank or musty taproom, afoot or ahorse, at home or abroad, any time, any weather, anywhere.

I take up next another important aspect of Homecoming — the decorations in front of the fraternity house. Well do I remember one Homecoming of my undergraduate days. The game was against Princeton. The Homecoming slogan was "Hold That Tiger!” Each fraternity house built a decoration to reflect that slogan, and on the morning of the game a group of dignitaries toured Fraternity Row to inspect the decorations and award a prize for the best.

The decoration chairman at our house was an enterprising young man named Rex Sigafoos, nephew of the famous lepidopterist. Rex surveyed Fraternity Row, came back to our house and said, "All the other houses are building cardboard cages with cardboard tigers inside of them. We need to do something different — and I’ve got it. We’re going to have a real cage with a real tiger inside of it —a snarling, clawing, slashing, real live tiger!”

"Crikey!” we breathed. "But where will you get him?”

"I’ll borrow him from the zoo,” said Rex, and sure enough, he did.

Well sir, you can imagine what a sensation it was on Homecoming morning. The judges drove along nodding politely at cardboard tigers in cardboard cages and suddenly they came to our house. No sham beast in a sham cage here! No sir! A real tiger in a real cage — a great striped jungle killer who slashed and roared and snarled and dashed himself against the bars of his cage with maniacal fury.

There can be no doubt that we would have easily taken first prize had not the tiger knocked out the bars of the cage and leaped into the official car and devoured Mr. August Schlemmer, the governor of the state, Mr. Wilson Ardsley Devereaux, president of the university, Dr. O. P. Gransmire, author of A Treasury of the World’s Great Southpaws: An Anthology of Left Hand Literature, Mr. Harrison J. Teed, commissioner of weights and measures, Mrs. Amy Dorr Nesbitt, inventor of the clarinet, Mr. Jarrett Thrum, world’s 135 pound lacrosse champion, Mr. Peter Bennett Hough, editor of the literary quarterly Spasm, and Mrs. Ora Wells Anthony, first woman to tunnel under the North Platte River. ©Max shuiman, 1954

This column is brought to you by the makers of PHILIP MORRIS who think you would enjoy their cigarette.

Now back to a full staff of 6 Barbers

at the

REYNOLDS CLUB

BARBER SHOP

57<h AND UNIVERSITY

Waiting time will be a minimum

9-5 Mon. - Fri. — 9-1 Saturday

oil

BROOKS BROTHERS SPORTWEAR an interesting new selection that's colorful, exclusive and distinctive

We’ve an outstanding selection of new Fall sportwear items...including lightweight wool jersey knit sport jackets, miniature Tartan wool Odd Vests, tanlovat covert Odd Trousers... and a host of practical, attractive outerwear items, sport shirts, sweaters, etc.... as well as all our traditional favorites.

Catalogue upon request.

SSTABLISHID 1l1t

liens furnishings, flats ^f hoes

346 MADISON AVENUE, COR. 44TH ST., NEW YORK 17, N. Y. BOSTON • CHICAGO • LOS ANGELES • SAN FRANCISCO

saved by the Illini goalie.

The second half began auspiciously for Chicago. In what was perhaps the finest solo play of the year, Godfrey dribbled the ball forty yards into the Navy Pier goal.

Chicago elation was shortlived, however. Fifteen seconds later the Illini roared down the field, drew goalie Jerry Czamanske out of position, and gave Ihor Dachnivsky a chance to tap the ball into the net to event the score. 2-2.

The winning goal came late in the last quarter when a long, fast ground ball took a tremendous hop over the Maroon goalkeeper's head, surprising everyone. Chicago was unable to score before time ran out.

Aero aims at filling posts

Acrotheatre needs to fill a Tot of empty shoes this fall, but not dancing shoes, according to President John Frey.

Although the organization has a fairly full complement of modern, ballet, and afro-cuban dancers. it is lacking managers and

administrators for props.

sets,

makeup, and other tasks. Frey hopes to have these posts filled soon.

SPORTS CALENDER

Tomorrow:

Soccer, Earlham, 9.30 a.m., Stagg Field

Cross country, Wright and Wisconsin State, 12 noon, Washington Park

Gordon’s Sport Shop

Tennis Balls, $6.00 a dozen $16.50 Tennis Rockets, $9.95

3757 Cottage Grove

 *’ fusion V5ths Scotch l/5th Yankee 71 | What a mixture of fun!

I Paul Douglas

I Alex Mackenzie

I A tasty dish of

4 pure whimsey

Students presenting their ID cards at box office will be admitted for 50c any week night. Saturdays and Sundays until 5 p.m.

Eye Examinations Visual Training

Dr. Kurt Rosenbaum

optometrist

1132 E. 55th Street

HYde Park 3-8372

Louise Barker photographer "ivho captures your personality as well as your person'’

1457 E. 57th St. BU 8-0876 THE CHICAGO MAROON

October 29, 1954

Page 8

Want Ads

Lost

am PHOTOGRAPHERS

Randolph and Kar Analytic Geometry and Calculus book. No name inside. Finder please return to Edward Kowalski. Hitchcock Hall. Room 51.

Services

Moving? Call Prime Movers. Two husky students, car, trailer. Call MI 3-920 or PL 2-6412. Reasonable rates.

Mathematical instruction to fit needs of individual or group. Soglin. ST 2-6727.

Wanted

Used lightweight woman’s bicycle. If you have one for sale call DO 3-1858 or RY 3-7915.

Mother to care for my 14-months-old girl in her home; days; near University. PL 2-2958.

For Sale

Blue ribbed mohair couch and chair. Good condition. $37.50. NO 7-0615.

1947 Kaiser. Pretty fair condition. $85. Call MI 3-0800, Ext. 1588.

Sofa. 17-inch Westinghouse TV. Upright vacuum cleaner. Bookcase. Philco radiophonograph. Desk. Best offer. BO 8-4036 before Sunday.

Woodlawn near 53rd. 2-flat brick. 8 and 7. Each apartment. 4 bedrooms, Pi baths, living, dining, kitchen, screen porch. 8-room has many modern extras. 2-car brick garage, overhead door. Call owner weekends or after 4 p.m. FA 4-7020.

Quality photographic enlarger. Slightly used. Perfect condition. 40-60% off. At bookstore photographic. Joe Wolf, ES 5-1615.

Drastically reduced—Revere tape radiorecorder. Slightly used. Excellent condition. Portable: 3 speed. Yours for balance payments due; $148. June Johnnaber. Ext. 3296. Evenings HY 3-2 23. s

German monocular miscroscope. Five eye-pieces; four objectives. Wooden and plastic cases. $300. NO 7-3136.

Help Wanted

4 Salesmen. We pay salary plus commission. Good part-time job for students. Car not necessary. Call 7-8 p.m., CO 4-7600. Thompson Movers, 434 W. 125th Pl.

Local moving express service to and from freight depots. Rates reasonable. MU 4-0435. John Sutcliffe.

Carmen’s used furniture store. Moving and light hauling. 1127 E. 55th St. MU 4-9003.

Personal

Farewell to all my past ana present instructors and other friends. It has been both a pleasure and a wonderful experience knowing you all. I look forward to the day when we may meet again. Sincerely, Marv Lyonus.

CARMEN'S Used Furniture Store Typewriters and Desks Moving and Light Hauling 1127 E. 55th MU 4-9003

SAVE TIME — SAVE MONEY

N & R Bonded Movers — also — New and Used Furniture

Mi 3-4196 1510 E. 55th

The College

LAUNDERETTE

1449 East 57th St.

MU 4-9236

BETZ JEWELRY

Unusual Jewelry Our Specialty

Expert Jewelry and Watch Repair N.S.A. Discount to Students

1523 E. 53rd PL 2-3038

Choose an Expert THOMPSON MOVERS

Local and Long Distance Moving CO 4-7600

Bibo, ergo sum

Jimmy’s

1172 E. 55th

MIDWAY 3-4433

1171 EAST 55th STREET

ACASA Book Store

Scholarly used books Typewriters bought, sold and repaired

1117 E. 55lli St. Hl 3-9651

new and different

stag or drag

Dancing and Entertainment Tonight

Music by Eddie Fox, His Orchestra and Vocalist

from 9:00 P.M. Admission $1.00 plus tax and that's all

The Elms Hotel, East 53rd Street and Cornell Avenue

We stock most blends of Twining Teas. Earl Grey, $1.75 Jasmine, $2.00. In half pound canisters.

GET MUCH MORE FLAVOR

MUCH LESS NICOTINE I

Jisquhr.

*WQ

It's the FILTER that Counts and L*M has the Best!

give you the Miracle Tip — the effec* tive filtration you need.. Cet much more flavor — much less nicotine — a light, mild smoke. Yes, — it s the filter that counts ... and L&M has the best!

BUY L&Ms King-size or regular. JUST WHAT THE DOCTOR ORDERED!

Why do L&M sales soar higher every day? It’s the one filter cigarette that gives smokers a taste they can enjoy — a filter they can depend on. Now L&M comes king-size, too, at the same low price as regular.

In either size —only L&M Filters

1 ^Yers

ION