ermi service today

University of Chicago, December 3, 1954

 

©vii

Former associates of^ermi to speak in Rockefeller today

Father of the atomic bomb'

SU announces social plans: C-dance, party, Wash Prom

The annual convention of the Vampires, Witches, Ghouls, Werewolves, and Warlocks Chowder and Marching Society, Inc., will be held in conjunction with Student Union’s Danse Macabre tomorrow night, announced Jan Metros, executive director of the VWGWWC&M, recently.

Honored guests will include the Three Witches, late of Broadway’s Macbeth, who will serve their specialty, Virginia ptomaine punch, to guests with ironclad stomachs.

Welly Shiller’s Murmuring Mandrakes will furnish music for the earthbound beginning at 9 p.m., and the cock will crow at 12. Admission in Earth-America cash (please, no bewitched or bemildered Martian Confederate) $1.75. Surprisingly, guests are to come in ordinary informal dress.

A stellar cast of entertainers will present their own interpretation of “A Night on Bald Mountain,” or ‘‘On Top of Old Hairless.”

“Here we come a-wassailing” will be the melodic theme of the annual SU wassail party to be held Wednesday. The wassailers will celebrate from 4-6 p.m. at Ida Noyes hall.

The party traditionally marks the beginning of the Christmas season on the UC campus. Highlighted activity of the afternoon will be the collective decoration of the Ida Noyes Christmas tree, complete with hot punch and Christmas carols.

Admission to the party is without ticket or charge.

Formal announcement of the plans for the 52nd annual Washington Promenade was made this week by Dale Levy, president of Student Union, the organization sponsoring the dance.

This year’s Wash Prom, traditionally the biggest dance of the UC social system, will be held in the grand ballroom of the Knickerbocker hotel on February 19.

Music for the dance will be provided by Phil Levant’s orchestra featuring vocalist Johnny Desmond, and Lavonne Carroll.

SU’s dance chairman is holding an organizational meeting in the Reynolds club “fishbowl” today at 3:30. SU has opened the meeting to any students who are interested in working with the Wash Prom committee.

SQ to take UC student poll on Commons cleaning issue

A petition to determine student opinion of the administration’s plan to clean the Commons has been prepared by Student Government for circulation in the Commons-C-Shop area.

According to the letter, signed by Al Fortier, SG president, the administration is planning to clean the walls, woodwork, windows, and ceiling of the Commons, at a rumored cost of $5,000 to $8,000. Members of SG have felt that this money could better be spent in some other way in the

Commons-C-Shop area, for the improvement of these facilities.

The questionnaire asks if the student feels that the Commons should be cleaned; if other places, such as Reynolds Club Lounges, Swift Commons or Wieboldt Lounges, could be utilized for CShop type service; and if there are any other suggestion for improving Commons • C - Shop services.

Examples of what the Commons would look like of the present plans were carried out are in the southeast corner of the Commons.

Two associates who spanned both the Italian and American scientific periods of Enrico Fermi, Nobel prize physicist of the University who died Sunday, will speak at his memorial service. The service will be held this afternoon at 2 p.m. in Rockefeller chapel.

Herbert Anderson, professor of physics in the Institute for Nuclear Studies, will speak

on Fermi’s scientific achievements in the United States. These included the first controlled nuclear chain reaction, conducted under the stands of Stagg field, December 2, 1942.

Build cyclotron

Anderson worked with Fermi during his entire American career, which began at Columbia University, moved to the University of Chicago in 1941, and continued at Los Alamos, where the A-bomb was constructed. Anderson then collaborated with Fermi in building the University of Chic a g o ’ s synchrocyclotron, with which the Italian-born scientist carried on his post-war studies of the forces holding together the nucleus of the atom.

The other speaker is Emilio

Cancel Mc Carthy'Censure rally as Senate gives verdict

A scheduled rally supporting censure of Senator Mc Carthy was cancelled this week when the Senate took action before it could be held.

The rally, scheduled for next Tuesday, was sponsored by

Young Democrats, Young Republicans, Students for Democratic Action, Independent

Ex US attorney talks on Holmes

Francis Biddle, former US attorney general, will discuss the place in constitutional history of Oliver Wendell Holmes, justice of the Supreme Court 1902-1932, at 8:30 p.m. Monday in Breasted hall, Oriental institute.

This is the last of a series of six free public lectures on justices of the Supreme Court, sponsored by the UC law school.

Author of a biography of Justice Holmes, Biddle was law clerk to Holmes 1911-1912. He is former judge of the US third circuit court of appeals and former solicitorgeneral of the United States.

Law students plan dance conflicting with next C-Dance

Contrary to the regulations

of

the student code, the Law Students association will hold a dance at the same time as the all-campus Student Union dance this Saturday. SU president Dale Levy called the double scheduling a “misunderstanding” and said that Vincent Diana, president of the law group had apologized.

Miss Levy emphasized that Student Union will not bring charges, and has fully accepted the apology. However, she hopes that organizations will note that no social event may be held at the same time as a social event of an all University nature, according to the student code. All socail events must be registered with the student activities office.

Segre, now a professor of physics at the University of California, W'ho holds the first Ph D awarded under Fermi when the latter became professor of theoretical physics at Rome. He collaborated in the early studies for which Fermi won the Nobel prize, and later worked with Fermi in the United States at Los Alamos.

Presiding at the services will be Samuel K. Anderson, professor of physics and director of the Institute for Nuclear Studies, in which Fermi held the Charles H.

Swift distinguished service fessorship.

Piero Guadagnini, Italian sul-general in Chicago, will

proconrepresent his government at the services.

Students league, Student Representative party, NAACP, Channing club, and Robin Hood.

It was to feature Jim Doyle, co-chairman of Americans for Democratic Action and Democratic national committeeman from Wisconsin; Morris Rubin, editor of the Progressive; Sid Williams, chairman of the Chicago Urban league; and several UC faculty members.

Finer teaches credit course

in 12-program TV series

An experiment in offering University of Chicago credit courses on TV opens January 2, as Herman Finer, professor of political science, begins his twelve-program series of weekly

telecasts titled “Governments

Such courses are new to the Chicago area, though they have been offered in other sections of the country under the auspices of the universities of California, Utah, Omaha, and Miami, among others.

WNBQ will broadcast the series on its “Live and Learn” program, Sunday mornings from 10 t P 10:30.

The course is devoted to understanding the essentials of governments of great modern nations and how they make policies that may affect the way of life of the United States. Great Britain, France, Germany and the Soviet Union will be analyzed, with a comparison of their political methods with each other and with those of the United States.

Among the factors determining international war and peace that will be discussed are security, interest, spiritual values and law. Questions from viewers will be answered to a limited extent.

Dr. Finer, before becoming a

See page two for complete details on the death of Dr. Enrico Fermi. A summary biographical sketch of the scientist also appears on that page.

Open advance registration for next quarter

College students already registered for the winter quarter will receive their class tickets through the mail by December 6, according to the Dean of Students’ office.

Those students in residence who have not yet registered will be able to do so in advance for the winter quarter, between December 6 and 17. Also students wishing to make changes in their registrations must make appointments with their advisers during the registration period.

The last day to pay tuition without a late-payment fee will be January 5. The bursar will extend his office hours on January 4 and 5, opening at 9 a.m. and closing at 5 p.m.

Students register according to the following schedule: December 6-10: biological sciences, medical school, law school. December 13-15: federated theological school.

December 13-17: humanities, social sciences, graduate library school, physical sciences, social service administration.

December 14-17: business school.

and Human Nature.

member of the political science department of the University in 1946, was a member of the faculty of the University of London and visiting professor at Harvard. He is the author of numerous books in the field of political science.

Registration for the course of twelve lessons is being handled through the home study department of the University, with a fee of $22.50 covering cost of syllabus and grading and return of the lessons. Satisfactory completion of the course will provide one-half unit of regular credit.

MAROON errs

The Maroon apologizes for misspelling the name of Millard P. Binyon, professor of humanities in the college who died November 23, in last week’s issue. Binyon’s first name was printed as Willard, rather than Millard. Page 2

THE CHICAGO MAROON

December 3, 1954

Fermi, UC scientist, dies at 53

Cancer claims Nobel prize winning physicist who achieved first nuclear chain reaction

by Ronald Grossman

Enrico Fermi, an architect of the atomic bomb, whose basic discoveries in physics opened the atomic age, died early Sunday at his home at 5327 University. Funeral services were held on Monday for the man who led a team of scientists at the University of Chicago to achieve the world’s first sustained nuclear reaction.

Fermi, 53, had undergone what was described as an “exploratory” operation in Billings hospital on October 9, which revealed an advanced stage of cancer. He returned to his home several weeks ago, and spent most of his time answering letters.

Fermi, a Charles H. Swift distinguished service professor of physics, had been with the University since 1945 when he joined the Institute of Nuclear Studies in the research institute.

Award from AEC

Only two weeks ago, he was awarded a $25,000 prize from the

Enrico Fermi

Father of the atomic bomb' rises to world fame from humble start

by Ronald Grossman

More than any other man of his time, Enrico Fermi could properly be named “the father of the atomic bomb.”

The son of a railroad official, he was born in Rome, Italy, on September 29, 1901. He studied at the University of Pisa from 1918 to 1922, and later at the Universities of Leyden and Gottingden. In 1924 he was appointed lecturer at the University of Florence.

It was his epoch-making exp fission, the basic principle unde

In that year, he began to bombard atomic nuclei with neutrons.

With extremely simple equipment, Fermi began systematically bombarding the elements in the periodic table, beginning with the lightest element and moving up to the heavier elements. In the process, Fermi and his associates analyzed the chemical end products of the neutron bombardment.

When at last they came to uranium, then the heaviest known element, they found that more than one element was produced by the bombardment, and that at least one of the radioactive products seemed to be none of the existing elements close to uranium. Actually they had not produced a new element, but, as later analysis showed,# that had split uranium atoms.

Dr. Fermi also gained fame while still in Rome for another major discovery, essential for the production of atomic energy. This was the all-important observation that neutrons can be slowed down from speeds of more than 10,000 miles per second to speeds of only one mile per second by making them pass through light elements, and that such slowed-down neutrons become more than a hundred times more accurate in hitting their targets in the nuclei of atoms, and thus creating new elements, than fast neutrons.

These led to Fermi’s receiving the Nobel Prize in physics

Atomic Energy commission for his work on the atomic bomb. The award, the first such to be authorized under the terms of the new atomic energy act enacted this year, was bestowed upon Fermi with the approval of President Eisenhower.

The award cited Fermi for his “especially meritorious contributions’’ in atomic energy. The citation also noted Fermi’s contributions to basic neutron physics and the achievement of the controlled nuclear chain reaction. Rear Admiral Lewis L. Strauss, chairman of the commission, commented in an announcement at the tune that Fermi’s work had been of “tremendous importance’’ in the development of atomic energy.

“As much as any individual, he is responsible for the achievement of the controlled release of nuclear energy,’’ Strauss said.

The Fermi award was also announced on the floor of the United States Senate on the day it was given.

Not due to radiation

Announcement of the AEC award reportedly was advanced because the critical nature of Dr. Fermi’s illness was common knowledge among scientists.

An atomic research associate of Fermi said that the fatal cancer was not caused by Fermi’s experiments with controlled nuclear energy. They did not subject him unduly to radioactive

eriments at the University of rlying the atomic bomb as we

in 1938.

Fermi, unhappy in Mussolini’s Italy, especially from the time when the Italian dictator began promulgating anti-Semitic laws to please Hitler, took the opportunity to escape from the Fascist-ridden land when he received his award in the autumn of 1938.

Leaving Italy with his wife and two children to go to Stockholm, he informed the Italian authorities he had accepted a temporary teaching post in an American university. He arrived in New York on January 2, 1939, and quietly assumed a permanent post on the physics faculty at Columbia University.

Opens epoch

He could not have come at a more opportune time. In Germany, unknown to him, a team of Otto Hahn and Fritz Strassmann, who had been repeating the pioneer experiment begun by Fermi in Rome in 1934, had stumbled upon the world-shaking discovery that the shooting of neutrons at uranium resulted in the splitting of the uranium atom, or uranium fission. *

Bohr arrived in New York on January 16, 1939, and at once communicated the news to physicists in Princeton. Soon it reached Dr. Fermi in Columbia, who passed it on to other colleagues. On the night of January 25, 1939, in the basement of Pupin Hall on the Columbia campus, the first splitsubstances, he added, and any such injury from radiation would have affected the eyes first.

Physicians suggested an exploratory operation when Fermi returned ill from a visit to Italy in September. The operation revealed cancer so generalized that any treatment would have been ineffective.

Many express regrets

Dr. Fermi's untimely death was felt in many ways on the UC campus.

Chancellor Lawrence A. Kimpton, on a trip to the east with Dean Robert M. Strozier, altered his plans so that he could return to Chicago for the memorial service which will be held today at 2 p.m.

Expressions of grief came from many well-known figures at UC. Samuel K. Allison, director of the Institute for Nuclear Studies, spoke for the scientists at the University of Chicago.

“There is no doubt among those who knew him well that Enrico Fermi was one of the most brilliant intellects of our century,” Allison said.

“His associates at the University of Chicago, where he was the intellectual leader of the physics group, know that his loss can never be adequately replaced.”

Harold Urey, Martin A. Ryerson distinguished service professor of chemistry, a long time

’ome in 1934 that led directly as the atomic power plant.

ting of the uranium atom in America took place. It was not long before the epoch-making experiment was carried further at the University of Chicago, where the first nuclear chain reaction took place under Fermi’s direction.

As early as March, 1939, less than three months after his arriving in U. S., Fermi, armed with a letter of introduction from Columbia to Admiral S. C. Hooper, in Washington, tried to interest the Navy Department in the possibility of an atomic bomb.

Start Manhattan district

Unsuccessful in negotiating for support at first, Fermi and other scientists persisted. Realizing the danger that confronted the free world because of the swift work which the Nazis were doing in Germany, they induced the most famous scientist - exile among them, Albert Einstein, to write the historic letter to President Roosevelt, which led to the eventual development of the $2,000,000,000 Manhattan Engineering District, as the atomic bomb project was known.

Dr. Fermi, in association with Leo Szilard, another exile, then began working at Columbia on the construction of the first experimental “piles.” By the time the government was ready to support the project with substantial funds, the Fermi-Szilard team had laid down the groundwork that made the first chain reaction “pile” pos Enrico Fermi in front of a control panel which he used in his work.

friend and associate of Dr. Fermi, also expressed his/deepest sentiments at the loss of the great scientist.

threat creative feat

Fermi died just a few days short of the twelfth anniversary of the world’s first atomic fire, which he supervised on the squash court under the west stands of Stagg field on December 2. 1942. Chancellor Kimpton, who served for a time as UC administration officer of atomic energy work being conducted on campus, called the achievement “one of the greatest feats of creative effort man has ever achieved.”

Fermi also served as a consultant in the design of the University’s synchrocyclotron, one of the world's most powerful atom smashers.

to the discovery of uranium

sible.

It was twelve years ago this week, on December 2, 1942, that Fermi and the team of scientists he led lighted the first atomic fire on earth, on a gloomy squash court under the west stands of Stagg field.

Creates atom pile

Enrico Fermi was the chief architect of that atomic furnace, which he named "pile,” but which has since become better known as a nuclear reactor, the technical name for an atomic power plant.

After Fermi had set the atomic furnace into successful operation in 1942, Dr. Arthur Holly Compton, now of Washington University, St. Louis, and director of the Metallurgical Laboratory, telephoned an impromptu coded message to Dr. James B. Conant, then president of Harvard University and also head of the National Defense Research committee.

Dr. Compton said: “The Italian navigator arrived at the shores of the new world.” Dr. Conant then asked, “How were the natives?” Dr. Compton replied, “Very friendly.” Thus was word received by Washington that the first atomic fire in history had been kindled.

Fermi’s first “pile,” activated at the University of Chicago, was the forerunner of all the atomic power plants now being built and planned for the generation of atomic power for industrial and other peacetime uses.

He was a member of the American Philosophical society, the American Physical society and Sigma Xi. honorary scientific fraternity. In 1938, he received the Nobel prize in physics for his studies.

Dr. Fermi’s wife. Mrs. Laura Capon Fermi, is well known for her recently published book, Atoms in the Family, describing her life with the famous scientist. The couple had two children, Nelia and Giulio. Giulio, 18, attended the UC college from 1951 to 1953. He is now studying mathematics at Oberlin College.

Fermi’s death came on the very day that the Maroon congratulated him in an editors' column for his Atomic Energy commission award for meritorious work in atomic energy.

“Architect of atomic bomb” lectures before one of his physical science classes.

Joins UC staff

At the war’s end when the University of Chicago decided to keep together the nucleus of-the scientists who had worked in the Metallurgical laboratory on the campus on the development of the bomb, Fermi joined the staff of the newly founded Institute for Nuclear Studies in the then new Research Institute at 57th and Ellis. In the Institute, Fermi continued his investigations of the atom’s fundamental properties, concentrating on the nature of particles constituting the nucleus, or heart of the atom. As an aid in this investigation, Fermi served as a consultant in the design of the UC’s synchrocyclotron, until recently the most powerful atom smasher in the world. December 3, 1954

THE CHICAGO MAROON

Pag* 3

Beloff analyzes foreign policy failures:

blames over-confidence, over-suspicion

American foreign policy is the 122 Wednesday evening. appropriate to their foreign policy

victim of both over-suspicion and Analyzing the problems peculiar ends. For instance, while comover-confidence on the part of the to democratic foreign policy, Bel- munist governments resort to in American people, stated Max off noted that Americans feel that ternal revolutions to win over Beloff. professor of history at their foreign policy can accom- state Sj Americans have been con Nuffield college, Oxford Univer- plish more than it has but are vinced that “disapproval, loud and .site in a lecture at Social Science often unwilling to adopt means public, and in suitable terms would be an effective political factor leading to the disappearance of the regime at -which it was aimed.” Beloff stated that our recent attitude toward. China, like our attitude toward the USSR in the thirties, has reflected this peculiarly democratic conviction.

Beloff, an historian with a particular interest in American and Soviet histories, discussed “The democratic control of foreign policy," under the auspices of the UC center for the study of American foreign policy.

Paradoxically opposed to American over-confidence, Beloff added, it is a tendency for Americans to readily blame treason and sheer stupidity for foreign policy failure.

There also exists a “tendency to over-value common sense,” according to Beloff. “Common sense,” however, fails to provide the knowledge crucial to foreign policy, knowledge about the foreigner. One of the most important questions in our foreign policy, he continued, is how far the foreign policy expert will be allowed to voice his opinions and what institutions will give his opinion effectiveness.

Congressional hearings are a way of sounding public opinion which are not available in other democracies, he added.

The visiting historian stated that his current trip to the US has convinced him that the US is' a “profoundly pacifistic country.” The contrary impression which our policies create abroad Beloff attributed to our democratic peculiarities. In a democracy temporary public frustration can easily be manifested in foreign policies and create misimpressions. On the other hand, he added, policies of the USSR sound less aggressive because Soviet foreign policies are not directly responsible to the public and do not, consequently, vent frustrations of the Soviet people.

Maroon mystery photo

SALE HI-FI TRADE-INS

SAVE u 5 0%

on the following

Bogen R. 300 Tuner

this complete set

Do. 10 Ampflier Garrard R. C.

80 Changer

Altec Lansing Corner Cabinet $ 59.50

Fisher 50A 50-Watt 

Browning R. J. 42 AM-FM Tuner.....$110.00

R. C. 80 37.50

Livingston Arm $ 9.50

Rek-O-Kut 3-Speed $ 45.00

We accept trades on the above

Custom Audio and Component Cabinet*

Cash or budget

LUND COMPANY

5236 Blockstone Ave. MU 4-5300

Open Thursday and Sunday eves till 8pm

Shop now for Christmas and relaxl

Why not shop now for Dads, uncles and brothers? The campus stores are near, less crowded, and loaded with smart Arrow items for the male side of your Christmas list.

Be it shirts, ties, casual wear, handkerchiefs, or underwear. Arrow has them in smooth styles and perfect fit. Get them now and spend your vacation days restin’ and rompin’ in the easy social manner. Slide down to the man who sells Arrow and solve your Christmas-sbopping cares today I

.AJi/l OW SHIRTS & TIES

UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • CASUAL WEAR

photo by Zygmund

The first UC student to reach the Maroon office with the correct identification of the week’s mystery photo will receive a carton of Phillip Morris cigarettes, donated by the Phillip Morris company. Entries must state what the object is and where it is located, and should include the name, address, and telephone number of the entry. All entries must be brought to the Maroon office.

Fifteen rahs! Count them, fifteen! Itchy turtleneck sweaters, too!

by Diana Epstein

“We’ve got the coach, we’ve got the team, we’ve got the pep, we’re on the beam fifteen rah’s for the basketball team. Rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah!”

These were the cries emanating from the pool table area on the second floor, Reynolds club, Wednesday evening. Intrigued passers-by, who went to investigate found four cherleaders cheering!

However, unfamiliar with the concept, this Maroon reporter asked, “What are you doing?” “What are you?”

“We’re cheerleaders cheering,” Ruth Kopel, wearing a white turtle-neck sweater, replied. While Ruth was being interviewed, her

associates, Joan Kaplan, Donm Masters, and Dave Leonetti coi> tinued to cheer.

When asked where the group was to cheer, Ruth explained, “At the game tonight.”

“Game?” I questioned.

“Yes,” she said, “basketball you know where they have a ball and go . . ;” (repeatedly patting a small imaginary dog on the head).

The squad, established for the first time in “quite a while” last year, now has eight members. As I admired their perky white sweaters, Ruth said, “they’re hot and itchy.” “Now we’re going to ask the administration for cheerleading skirts,” Ruth explained longingly, “but we had enough trouble getting the sweaters also we would like to get maroon

CHRISTMAS Vacation!

How? you say...do your gift-listing right here. We’ll send your purchase home for you. We have everything that dad, pals, and kid brothers want, and ALL labeled “Arrow. Famous Dart white shirt, Gordon Dover button-down, Gabanaro sport shirts. Plus shorts and undershirts •nd handkerchiefs. Priced righty

Chicago - Evanston - Oak Park - Evergreen - Gary - Joliet - Alton

Let Arrow s-t-r-e-t-c-h that

and white Chicago megaphones.”

With a background of “rah’s” from her fellow cheerleaders, who continued to practice during the interview, Ruth recited the most popular UC cheer: “Chicago, Chicago, Chicago, Go; Go, Go, Go ...”

& Christmas is icumin in.

Need one go cuccu?

x on all kinds of top-quality / merchandise. Everything you

ff need for Christmas.

J See our catalogues in the x Student Activities Center— Basement of Reynolds Club ? or browse through our 5 complete catalogues x at our new office.

13-40 East 55 Street

It's the easy way to shop.

? Order from us. We pick up and deliver to you.

And besides your peace of mind you save twenty-two per cent.

13-40 East 55 St.

HY 3-4970

Hours:

9-5 — Monday-Saturday

$ Stop the rush and 0 shop in peace

And save you money £ too!

Just for you | Miriam’s

Shopping Service

? gives you 22 per cent $ discount to University of x Chicago Students

^ Miriam’s

; Shopping Service THE CHICAGO MAROON

December 3, 1954

Editors' Column

Mourn death of Fermi

It was only last week that Enrico Fermi’s name appeared in this column. At that time we had had occasion to comment on a new honor conferred upon Dr. Fermi. Now Enrico Fermi is dead. In fact, he was a dying man when the Atomic Energy Commission conferred upon him the singular honor of its first special award for contributions in the field of nuclear physics.

It was impossible to ignore Enrico Fermi, the internationally famous nuclear scientist; he had wrought one of the modern wonders of the world. He was more than a Nobel-prize winner; Time magazine had called him the greatest living atomic scientist. He was enormously productive at 53 in a science where most great contributions are made by men in their late twenties. A scientist once said that it was impossible to discuss nuclear physics for five minutes without talking about Enrico Fermi.

But those who knew the man as the dedicated scientist he was are sure that his greatest satisfaction came from the work itself, rather than from the world wide recognition it brought him. The explanation of this is simple: Fermi was a humble man. His humility manifested itself in his modesty, his dealings with friends and associates, and in his attitude towards his students. People came to know and respect the man because of this feature of his personality.

It is true that Fermi’s achievements will be a source of inspiration to the generation of physicists who come after him. May the humility of this man, whose intellect demonstrated the highest powers to be achieved from the mind which the Creator bestowed upon man, also be an inspiration and set a keynote for our lives.

Dr. Fermi’s death is a tremendous loss to the University of Chicago, to the nation, and to the world. To his bereaved family, may we extend our deepest condolences.

Allen R. Janger

Ronald Grossman

Editorial

Maroon frowns on debate nix

Of all the people in the world one of the last you'd ever expect to rocket to national prominence would be Herbert L. Cushing, President of the Kearney State Teachers’ College, Kearney, Nebraska. Yet he managed to do so on October 26th when he told the United Press that he had forbidden the college debating team to compete on the subject of recognizing Communist China.

"I personally feel,’’ Cushing said, “that back of it all is a bit of a desire on the part of somebody to indoctrinate a few thousand American college youths with what I consider to be a dangerous philosophy.”

The statement did not occasion the usual stampede of not-meism, but enough other colleges followed suit to warm the cockles of Mr. Cushing's freedom-loving heart. He was joined by the other Nebraska teachers’ colleges, the University of Omaha, a solid third of the country's Catholic colleges, and most shocking of all, West Point and Annapolis. Most of the reputable universities, however. held the line, and strong statement by both UC's director of student activities, William Birenbaum. and Northwestern's debate director, Glen Mills, were on the UP wire the same day. It is worth noting that neither the University of Nebraska nor Notre Dame, along with most large Catholic universities, have followed the lead of their small but vocal colleges.

A sample of the minority Catholic attitude, which must not be taken as the opinion of the hierarchy which has already given the topic full clearance, was received by the Student Forum office on October 29th. The letter, in the form of a manifesto, was sent to the nation’s universities by the College of St. Rose, Albany, New York. Among the numerous whereases we find the following:

“WHEREAS the so-called People’s Republic of China has established itself as a ruthless dictatorship, and suppressed the religious and political freedom of the Chinese people,

“NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that we formally declare our opposition to the National Debate Topic ”

Apparently anyone who might wish to know just what freedom the Chinese people ever had to lose or to inquire just what Chiang Kai-Shek s dictatorship ever demonstrated in the way of truth, had better not ask his questions at St. Rose. It was this ostrich-like attitude that lost the friendship of China in the first place, and is now on the verge of losing Asia Itself.

But even the possible loss of Asia is overshadowed by the possible loss of freedom of expression in America, for what would it avail to win such prizes for a country whose national character is in the process of melting away? The only “dangerous philosophy” easily detectable in the current controversy is the attitude of Cushing himself.

It is most gratifying to note that the President feels the issue serious enough to risk a comment. In response to a question as to whether or not the decision to prevent the West Point and Annapolis teams from debating the question “coincides with your views on intellectual freedom?” the President said he would trust their judgment if they wanted to argue about Red China and would allow them to state their case as strongly as they wished. The regrettable aspect of the affair is that such a statement was necessary. Our forefathers held these (ruths to be self evident.

Issued once weekly by the publisher, The Chicago Maroon, at the publication office, 5706 South University Avenue, Chicago 37, Illinois. Telephones: Editorial Office, Midway 3-0800, Ext. 1010; Business and Advertising Offices, Midway 3 -0800, Ext. 1009. Distributed free of charge, and subscriptions by moil, $3 per year. Business Office hours: 1 to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday.

ALLEN R. 

RICHARD E. editor

WILLIAM M. BRANDON. . .business manager

Executive news editor. News editors Feature Editor Sports editor Production manager . . Photography editor Copy editor Personnel manager Advertising manager

 Burbach . Diana Epstein, Bob Quinn, David Schlessinger Suzanne Friedmann Spike Pinney

 Slein Ronald Grossman Jeon Carlsson Jack Burbach Gary Mokotoff

Maroon staffer casts fishy eye on SQ stamp appropriations

Editor's note: The incident commented on in the accompanying .statement is true. The author wants it understood that he is completely serious and wrote the article with a straight face. The staff wants it understood that these are not necessarily their views and otherwise wash their hands of the whole business.

It was brought to the uneasy attention of Student Government echelons at a recent SG meeting that rhe appropriations they had granted for 500 postage stamps in a short-term interval was suspiciously large. When asked to account for the use of stamps, officials of the majority party (which shall remain nameless) could only murmur something to ihe effect that "Well, uh. we do, uh a LOT of mailing.”

The Maroon is too honest, a publication to accuse ISL fwhich shall remain nameless) of feathering their nesrs with purple replicas of G. Washington, but we would like to publicly ask ISL (which shall remain nameless) members to answer the following questions:

IS IT TRUE THAT CLIVE’ GRAY CORRESPONDS DAILY WITH

A PEN PAL IN CAPETOWN, SOUTH AFRICA?

IS IT TRUE THAT ELI STEIN MAILED IN 219 POST CARD VOTES TO THE MORRIS B. SACHS AMATEUR HOUR?

IS IT TRUE THAT JAN METROS ENTERED 132 NATIONAL LIMEditorial staff Joe Abatie, Poul Baptist, Som Blazer, Robert Bloch, Alice Bloom, Roger Bowen, Paul Breslow, Alan Chorlens, Prentiss Choate, Charles Cooper, Kent Flannery, Fred Freed, Rosemary Galli, ' Lois Gardner, Sam Greenlee, Bonnie Greatman, Bill Kaplan, Jean Kwon, Bruce Larkin Carolyn Martinetti, Joe Picheny, Ed Regal, Sue Tax, Frank Ternenyi.

Business staff City advertising manager, Robert Lotts; Business secretary, Don Miller; Subscription manager, Norman Lewak; Billing secretary, Tom Kopontats.

ERICK CONTESTS DURING THE LAST MONTH?

IS IT TRUE WHEN SABINA WARNER BOASTS OF NEVER HAVING SENT ANY SG MAIL EXCEPT BY SPECIAL DELIVERY?

IS IT TRUE THAT ANTON DEPORTE COLLECTS STAMPS?

Frank Jakolski, Victor Posnick, Sam Tipton, Joe Wolf

These are the questions. The Maroon will wait for ISL (which shall remain nameless) officers to answer them.

Robert Quinn

Photographers 0.

CHRISTMAS

GIVE IHE REVISED STANDARD VERSION BIBLE

THf Ff WKT (UH I. J. V. I.

Genuine Leather SI 0.00

Buckram $ (.00

tllvcfrated editions •• . $3.IS t S3.SO

Come in and see our complete selection

WOODWORTH’S BOOK STORE

13)1 E. 57th St.

Kkhh *

UNIVERSITY FOODS

1129 E. 55th

Open daily A Sundays: O A.M. till ft:HO P.M. NSA discount on $3.00 purchases

ITALIAN FIESTA PIZZERIA

Large $2 Special Pizza ’/ Sausage Ya Anchovy % Pepper 1/4 Mushroom

1427 E. 67th MU 4 S$

FREE DELIVERY TO U. of C. STUDENTS On orders over $2

Quick Courteous Service

TABLE SERVICE

11 A.M. to 3 A.M

7 Days a Week DELIVERY SERVICE 5 P.M. to 3 A.M 4 ,

4

4 Cramming lor Exams?

Fight “Book Fatigue” Safely

Your doctor will tell you — a No Doz Awakener is safe at- an average cup of hot, black coffee. Take a No Dot Awakener when you cram for that exam ...or when mid-afternoon brings on those “3 o’clock cobwebs.” You’ll find No Doz gives vou a lift without a letdown ... helps you snap back to normal and fight fatigue safely!

98‘

15 l•Wf|^-Jj(

large economy size (for Greek Row and Dorms) 60 tablets —

SAFE AS COFFEE

Letters

Sidelight on music

Your music critic, Robert Bloch, has a deft pen, and he used it to great advantage in his discussion of the Schneider-Balsam concert in last Saturday's Maroon. Ho also revealed that he has read widely in the literature of music criticism. However, he has either read too rapidly, or he is withholding some interesting information. The "Victorian music critic named di Bassetto” was, in fact, none other than Bernard Shaw.

Shaw wrote under the name "Como di Bassetto” during ihe late ’80s and the early ’90s for at least one small London paper (the Star) and perhaps for others. His two columns a week in the Star, for which he received about a guinea, comprised his first steady employment. The name, Corno di Bassetto, means Basset Horn. The Basset Horn is a rarely used variety of tenor clarinet, which has a particularly toneless tone. Shaw says, in his introduction to the first volume of his collected music criticism, that if he had know what the Basset Horn sounded like when he chose the name, he would have chosen another. Sincerely,

Robert I Wolfson

ACE

CYCLE SHOP

Your Bicycle Headquarters

We service what we sell Repairs & Parts all makes IE. 55 All 3-2(172

9 A M. - 6 P.M.

|COMO PIZZERIA

1520 E. 55th St.

• Bar-be-cue ribs

• Bar-be-cue chicken

Delivery Anywhere

FA 4-5525 December 3, 1954

THE CHICAGO MAROOH

Fa >

Vets should register

Drives to renovate UC environs

Approximately 22.000 Illinois veterans in training under public law 550 were warned by the Veteran's administration regional office last week that their allowance checks may be delayed if they fail to submit their monthly certifications before December 10.

Under the law, a veteran must

fill out a monthly report of training signed by both the veteran and a responsible official of his school. It is the responsibility of the veteran and the school to make sure that the report is signed, correctly completed, and sent to the VA regional office, 2030 West Taylor, Chicago 12. VA cannot send out checks until they receive the report.

progress,regress simultaneously

by Arnie Metanky

The campaign to improve the neighborhood around the University of Chicago took one step forward and another step backward this week.

On the positive side, James C. Downs, Jr., the city’s housing and redevelopment coordinator, submitted to Mayor Kennelly and the city council an ordinance authorizing Chicago to apply for federal funds to be used in planning its first urban renewal project.

What have VICEROYS got that other filter tip cigarettes • haven’t got?

Inside every Viceroy tip is a vast network of 20,000 individual filters to filter your smoke over and over again. You get only the full, rich taste of Viceroy’s choice tobaccos and Viceroys draw so freely.

Yes, you get Viceroy’s remarkable new tip with 20,000 individual filters plus king-size length for only a penny or two more than cigarettes without filters.

THE ANSWER IS

20,000 FILTERS

IN EVERY VICEROY TIP

This project would improve Grove, Lake Michigan and the I north boundary of the UC campus.

The step backward came when the city council delayed approval of the Hyde Park redevelopment program. The Hyde Park plan had been recommended by the council’s housing and planning committee. headed by Alderman Robert E. Merriam.

‘Too few hearings’

At the council’s Monday meeting Aiderman William H. Harvey complained that Merriam’s committee had not held enough public hearings on the Hyde Park project.

Harvey showed his fellow aidermen pictures of some of the buildings which would be torn down. He insisted that the buildings are in good condition, and said. “These people's homes are at stake.”

Merriam replied that only four per cent of the homes to be torn down are owned by their tenants. The council voted 30 to 8 to send the program back to the housing committee for further study and for more public hearings.

The housing committee will hold another session on the proposal next Wednesday.

The Chicago Sun - Tinies disclosed yesterday that only one of the homes mentioned by Aiderman Harvey is to be torn down as part of the Hyde Park project. According to the newspaper, a survey showed that “eleven of the twelve houses used as exhibits by Harvey are not in the redevelopment area.” The one house actually in the area is located at 1322 East 54th.

the appearance of the area

Delays action

The council delayed action on the second proposal, backed by Mayor Kennelly and by Merriam’s housing committee, that the city seek federal funds to build 3800 public low-rent housing units.

The low-rent housing would be used to relocate people whose homes had been torn down to make way for the city’s redevelopment and public improvement projects. The city council will take up the question again on December 9.

Before a municipality can obtain federal aid. the Federal Housing and Home Finance agency must certify that the municipality has a “workable program” for housing, slum clearance or urban renewal work.

Submits plan

Mayor Kennelly submitted Chicago’s “workable program” No Form archaeology club on campus

A new club, the Archaeology club, formed on campus recently. First meeting is scheduled for today at 8 p.m., at Ida Noyes; all those interested are invited to attend.

Officers are president, William Hallo, a student of assyriology; vice president, Nick Millet, college; and secretary. Penny Weadock, Mesopotamian archaeology. The club's faculty adviser is Robert Adams of the department of anthropology and the Oriental institute.

by 47th street, Cottage

vember 12 to Albert M. Cole, administrator of the Housing and Home Finance agency, along with documents showing in detail that the city meets the requirements of the housing act of 1954.

On November 19 the city council’s housing committee approved a resolution certifying the need for the 3800 low-rent housing units. Only 35,000 such units can be built under the provisions of the 1954 act.

The Hyde Park projects deferred by the council Monday involve 47 blighted acres between Kimbark and Lake Park avenues, 53rd and 57th streets. About 700 homes, a shopping center and parking facilities would be constructed on two sites proposed by the South East Chicago commission (SECO.

Explains plan

J. Ross Humphreys, chairman of the Chicago land clearance commission, testified before the council’s housing committee on November 23 pointing out that the plans are interim proposals showing what the commission believes should be done in the area.

Illinois law requires the land clearance group to submit to the city council the plans of the redevelopers before the land is sold. Humphreys said the plans were an excellent technical job but not final.

Julian H. Levi, executive director o Lthe SECC, told the committee that the projects are endorsed by 33 community organizations representing 9500 families in Hyde Park and Kenwood.

fir those

you knout

WORLD’S LARGEST-SELLING FILTER TIP CIGARETTE

New King-Size

Filter Tip

Viceroy

M*^^ §— '^ea' Budweiser,

Cz the world’s most distinguished beer, in bright new Holiday Cartons of six or twelve cans.

Only a Penny or Two Moro than Cigarette* Without Filter#

ND, when friends come to call during the friendly Holiday

Season, serve Budweiser, the Perfect Host to a Host of Friends.

Budweiser

WORLD’S LARGEST-SELLING BEER

ANHSUSLR BUSCH, INC., ST. LOUIS . NIWARK . LOS ANOMIC Page 6

THE CHICAGO MAROON

December 3, 1954

Coming Campus Events

Saturday, December 4

Basketball game, 8 p.m., Field house. UC concert band will ploy ot gome.

Sunday, December 5

Young Socialist league meeting, 4:30 p m., Ida Noyes. Discussion of the nature of the Russian state.

Film: "Alexander Nevsky" (Russian). 7 and 9:30 p.m., Judson lounge. Admission 25c.

Channing club supper and meeting, 6:30 and 7:30 p.m., 5638 Woodlawn. Movies to be shown.

Young Friends supper and meeting, 6 and 7:15 p m., 5615 Woodlawn. Meeting with three foreign students to discuss academic and political freedom in their countries.

Calvert Club meeting, and supper, 4:30 and 6 p.m. Discussion on "the Catholic in a secular university."

University religious service, 1 1 a m., Rockefeller chapel. Speaker, James Luther Adams, professor of Christian ethics.

The Messiah, performed by University Choir and members of Chicago symphony orchestra. 3 p.m., Rockefeller chapel. Richord Vikstrom, conductor; Heinrich Fleischer, organist, Dorothy Linden Krieg, soprano; Audrey Paul, contralto; Denis Cowan, tenor; Kay Graves, bass.

Monday, December 6

Film: "Tight Little Island" (British), 7 and 9 p.m., International house. Admission 35c.

Lecture: "Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes," by Francis Biddle, former attorney-general of the U.S. 8:30 pm., Breasted hall, Oriental institute.

Physiology club meeting, 4 pm., Abbott 133. Speaker, Norman R. Alpert, assistant professor of physiology, University of Illinois, on "The oxygen-debt hypothesis."

Anarchism discussion group meeting, 6:45 p.m., 5638 Woodlawn.

Tuesday, December 7

Film: "The Experimental Art Film".

7:15 and 9:30 p.m. Social Science 122.

Mountaineering club meeting, 7:30 p.m., Rosenvyold 26. Program, three movies: "Enough Rope", "Military Rock Climbing, Tech“Hare You Heard'9 THE PIZZA KID is on 63rd Featuring Pizzo at its Finest Bar-B-Q Back Ribs - Chicken Spaghetti - Ravioli - Mustaccoii Italian Sausage or Beef Sandwiches Kosher Corned Beef Doily: 11 a.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday: 4 p.m. to 1 o.m. “We Deliver" DO 3-9777 1125 E. 63rd

WUCB vacations

Today is the last day WUCB will broadcast its own programs of WEFM from 9 a.m. to midnight.

Regular programming will be resumed in January. WUCB is heard at 640 kc. on the AM dial in B-J, the C-group and Int house.

nique", ond "Military Rock Climbing, Movement of Troops". Jean Devoux will speak on "North • faces".

Wednesday, December 8

Zoology club meeting, 4:30 p.m., Zoology 14. Speaker, William K. Baker, Oak Ridge national laboratory, on "Gene position and gene action".

Lecture illustrated with music: "Contemporary trends in Jewish thought ond music", by Ira and Judith Eisenstein. 8 p.m., 5715 Woodlawn. Dr. Eisenstein, Anshe Emet congregation, is eminent author ond leader of the reconstructionist movement; Mrs. Eisenstein is nationally known music researcher ond lecturer.

Symposium: "Climatic change", 7:30 pm., Eckhart 133. Speakers, Leland Hurberg, on "The geological record", and Cesare Emilieni, on "Change in ocean temperatures". Sponsors, American Meteorological society ond Eorth Sciences seminar.

English country dancing, 8-10 p.m., Ida Noyes cloister club. Instruction for beginners. Wear rubber-soled shoes.

Thursday, December 9

Pre-Med club dance, 6:30-10 p m., Ida Noyes. Contact Room 710, BJ, before Tuesday if you plan to attend.

Film: "Charlie Chaplin Festival A" (American). 7 and 9 p.m. International house. Admission 35c.

Symposium: "Climatic change", 7:30 p.m., Eckhart 133. Speakers, Sverre Petterssen, on "The meteorological record", ond Harold C. Urey, on "The phyiscal basis of climatic change".

If you want to put in a Classified Ad Call Ml 3-0800 Ext. 1009

Mon.-Fri. 10:30- 11:30 2:30-5:30

Want Ads

For Rent

2J£ rooms, $97.50. South Shore. First floor, electric kitchen. I. C. and CTA convenient. No children. Call RE 4-7088.

Lost

Dark horn-rimmed glasses; near Greenwood and 60th. Reward. Clifton Wharton, 1121 East 60th, PL 2-1358.

Services

Local moving. Express service to and from freight depots. Rates reasonable. 1309 E. 60th, MU 4-0435, John Sutcliffe.

Typing done. Term papers and theses. Call KE 6-8689, Mrs. Stanley Bohn.

Photography by Don Chapp carefully done at reasonable rates. Call MU 4-0563 evenings.

Dressmaking, alterations. Quick service. FA 4-7647, mornings or evenings.

For Sale

Oak studio couch, floor fan. oak dinette set. Many other nearly new quality items priced for quick sale. Leaving city. Morning's, evenings, DO 3-0334.

HEARD THE NEWS?

Now you can buy AMERICAN EXPRESS MONEY ORDERS

at

READER S CAMPUS DRUG STORE

1001 E. 61st Street Pay gas - light - phone bills too

A CAMPUS-TO-CAREER CASE HISTORY

1948 Nash Ambassador. 4-door, tanbrown, white wall tires, radio, heater, overdrive, anti-freeze. Fine condition throughout. $225 or best offer Webcor 2010 tape recorder. Like new, $135. Fred Smith, NO 7-9743, evenings.

South Wind auto heater, gasoline powered. Good condition. $20 or best offer. Hardyman, 520-B, call B-J.

Spanish guitar, brand new condition, nylon strings, $20 with case. Marc Leopold. 510 B-J, Ml 3-6000.

Wanted

Female student: Will exchange room and board in lovely home for baby sitting, dishes, own room and bath. Call DR 3-4684.

Riders to Denver, Colorado, Sunday, December 5. Return January 3. Contact J. Richman, MU 4-5506.

Research lab assistant. Prefer some college female with physics and/or math background. Technical duties include operation of scientific measuring equipment, analysis of data, plotting and fitting curves to data, etc. Excellent company benefits. 5-day week. Good salary rates. Ideal conditions. Apply Employment Department. Zenith Radio Corporation, 6001 W. Dickens at Austin.

Two male students desire to rent apartment during Christmas interim. Contact Arredondo, 426 B-J, MI 3-6000.

Students Interested in taking advantage of a group discount ticket to Miami during winter Interim, please call Marv Friedman. B-J.

Completed O-Board applications by December 5. Be sure recommendations (two with each application) accompany application.

Riders or ride, leaving about December 17th, fast trip to J_os Angeles. Bamberger, HY 3-4366, evenings.

Wanted: Female to share 3’.. room apartment, 49th and Drexel. Call Kenwood 8-2786 after 6 p.m.

Personal

To whom it may concern! Please stop taking down our Wash Prom posters Student Union.

Magnolia: I can't go through with it I'd rather go home to mother. (Signed) Oedipus. .

Ramona or anyone: Why don't you write? My address is in Sports Briefs Justin.

Z. B. You're not paying your classified ad bills. The Business Staff.

Dragon: Happy Birthday. Will send card next week. Love. J. B.

Boston and New York, Cleveland and Howard Johnsons; a good trip, Sam Teplitz and group.

HAVING TYPEWRITER TROUBLE?

Prompt, reliable repair service Typewriters rented, bought and sold ACTIVE TYPEWRITER SERVICE

1452 E. 57 St. PL 2-0541

(Special Student Discount)

Here Don Garland makes noise distribution measurements

with a Level Distribution Recorder

CAMPUS FOOD SHOP

Delieatessen & Bakery

Leave your party order with us

1369 East 59 Street

Choose an Expert THOMPSON MOVERS

Local and Long Distance Moving CO 4-7600

MODEL CAMERA SHOP Sth Anniversary

Register for $555.00 in Free Prizes MODEL TRAINS - PLANES PHOTO SUPPLIES NSA Discounts

1329 E. 55th St. HY 3-9259

MI 3-7229

My job is to help solve problems of noise and other interference on telephone lines due to power interference. Inductive co-ordination is the technical term for the work.

“First thing the Chief Engineer explained to me was that ‘all the answers aren’t in the book.’ He was right. Most of the problems have required a combination of electrical engineering, a knowledge of costs and generous amount of ingenuity. / like it that way. It’s given me an immediate opportunity to put into practice the theory I learned at school.

BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM

“In addition to this on-the-job experience, I have attended several special training courses conducted by the company. Now I’m breaking in a new man, just like when I started.”

• • •

Don Garland’s work is typical of many engineering assignments in the Bell Telephone Companies. There are similar opportunities for college graduates with Bell Telephone Laboratories, Western Electric and Sandia Corporation. If you’d like to get more details, see your Placement Officer. He will be glad to help you. THE CHICAGO MAROON

Page 7

December 3, 1954

Discriminatory file reflects UC area

by Palmer Pinney

Any University of Chicago student seeking an apartment this week might have come across a card in the University’s housing file carrying the following address and information; 6040 Ingleside, 2 rooms, 1 bathroom, 2 single beds, $32.50 per month, available from Oct. 1.

Any Chicago student desiring this particular apartment might have left the housing bureau’s files on the Administration building’s first floor, walked west to Ingleside and south to just short of 61st Street, and read a sign in the window of 6040: 2 Room Apt., Furnished,

stove and refrig., also Sleeping Room (White).

And any Negro student reading this sign would have 1 tu ned back toward campus, perhaps to try another address from the University’s file.

Problems arising from the listing of discriminatory landlords in the housing file are neither recent nor rare. In fact, a little over four years ago, the housing bureau maintained two files, one generally available only to white students, the other generally available only to Negroes. This system saved some embarrassment to Negro students, but it also created embarrassment for landlords who were asked whether or not they would accept Negro students, and resulted in a Negro file that listed housing generally more extensive and further distant than that given in the white file.

In February of 1950 three students met twice with Dean Robert E. Strozier protesting this system. As a result of the meetings Doan Strozier, in the words of one of the participating students, “ announced that beginning with the summer quarter the separate filing system would be abolished. He did not feel that the University could at this time refuse to list rooms of landlords who are known to follow a discriminatory policy but said that no such notations would be made on the cards. He said, further, that a letter would be sent to all landlords informing them of this new policy It is hoped that, in this way, landlords will be less prone to discriminate in their renting policy.”

No change since 1950

“At this time” has extended up to the present, and landlords seem as prone to discriminate now as they did four years ago.

In the summer of 1953, for instance, two Negro students sought an apartment near the University. According to one of them, now living in Burton-Judson courts, “Upon finding a vacancy listed in the University housing files, we attempted to secure an apartment at Midway Drexel Apts. (6020 Drexel). The landlord informed us that no vacancies existed. Subsequent to’our visit, several white friends secured apartments. An obvious case of discrimination.”

Speaking of the Midway Plaisance Apts., the same student said, “The landlord’s son told us that vacancies existed. We were to come back the next day and make final arrangements for renting. The landlord told us that day that it was a mistake by his son.”

Problems and incidents like these, arising from the listing of discriminatory landlords in the housing file, hurt the individuals involved very much in themselves. But in order to be understood they must be set in a background, and seen as part of a total situation. In Hyde Park, as in other city communities, the key to this total situation is the influx of Negroes into previously all- or nearly all-white areas.

Population Changes

In the decade between 1930-40, total Negro population in Hyde Park—between 51st and 60th, and from Cottage Grove to Lake Michigan—rose only ten per cent. In the decade 1940-50 it rose 206 per cent. Total Negro distribution in that decade increased to 3.2 per cent, having remained at a constant 1.1 per cent during the preceding ten years. These dry percentages evoked some warm responses from, organizations in Hyde Park.

Before 1948 these responses took the form of race restrictive covenants: written promises by property owners not to sell or rent property in some cases to any “non-Caucasian” and in other cases, to any person “of Negro, Mongolian, or Jewish ancestry.” One of these responses was stated by the author of a Master’s thesis submitted in 1951 on The Neighborhood Improvement Association: A Counter-Force to the Expansion of Chicago’s Negro Population: “The western section of Hyde Park and neighboring Woodlawn is dominated by the University of Chicago community. The possibility that this institution might be surrounded by a Negro community has long been

of concern. As a member of the Woodlawn Property Owners’ league, the business agent for the school was active in promoting restrictive covenants throughout the area.”

Supreme Court rules

In May of 1948 the United States Supreme Court declared that covenants which restrict the purchase and occupancy of land on a racial or religious basis can no longer be enforced by the courts.

Since then one of the chief responses to Negro influx has been

2 ROOM APT FURNISHf D $ rave ^ ref * ta. ALSO

' Photo by Tipton

Listed in the housing file is this apartment at 6040 Ingleside.

the occupancy standards agreement; an agreement imposing limitations on the use of property such as limiting the number of persons per room, preventing connance standards for all buildings.

One of these responses is given in the Local Community Fact Book for Chicago. 1950: “Before the Negroes moved in, Hyde Park versions which create crowding, had experienced an increase in and agreeing to certain mainte- conversions; this was accelerated with the coming of this new

Concert band reorganized

to

Sat. at Field House

Despite contradicting labels, this is the UC Concert Band, onetime owner of the world’s largest bass drum, at practice for its appearance at tomorrow night’s basketball game in the field house. Left to right are, in back row: Carol Werner, Roland Finston. Lewis Gross, and Benjamin Muckenhoupt; front row: Neil Huffaker, Marty Campbell, and Sam Teplitz. Conducting is Bill Kaplan.

by Don Fisher

UC Concert band is now back on the Quadrangles, and will make its first appearance, resplendent with new uniforms, Saturday at 8 p.m. at the Field house to give support to the Maroon basketball team in their game with Chicago Teachers

college.

Last year, under the presidentship of Roland Finston, the band played at five basketball games and performed for the Acrotheatre 'Show in Mandel hall.

The history of the band has been both long and colorful. In October 1898. William Rainey Harper, first president of the Uniharry lund

interiors

5236 s. blockstone

mu 4-5300

open thurs. eves.

lounge bed of wrought iron

and colorful tartan, gay, new

and comfortable, too!

The ideal lounge bed for your home, or child’s room. We show it with sturdy black wrought iron base, no-sag spring unit and a really •comfortable innerspring mattress covered in black, gray and red cotton tartan.

Mattress reverses for extra wear, has a plump matching pillow filled with crushed chicken feathers. Very compact, measures 28 x 73 inches. Attractive, easy-toclean! Save now at this special price!

with reversible innerspring mattress ond pillow, complete

versity and solo cornet in the group, organized the band. The organization made its first public appearance on December 16, 1898, and was an immediate success. Remunerations offered to students giving time to the group helped in the growth as well as the popularity of the group.

In 1922, C. D. Greenleaf, prominent alto player in the band, gave the University 100 instruments, among them “Big Bertha,” the largest bass drum in the world. The giant was more than eight feet in diameter and required a special express car for its transportation when it traveled with the band and football team.

When the drum had been completed in the Conn factor in Elkhart it was too large to be removed from the building; consequently, a portion of the factory wall was removed. Throughout the years, the drum proved a troublesome mascot, but one of which the team was, nevertheless, proud. Bertha now resides in the museum in Indiana.

UC had a real concert band for the first time in 1928. Peter Clark was conducting, and under his direction the football parade band was regrouped into a straight concert band. The band’s best year was 1930, not only on the local level, where it was the most popular activity on campus, but in competition with all “Big Ten” schools, Chicago’s band ranked first from every angle.

One of the main reasons for the band’s popularity was its breaking of tradition. It was no longer a military band, but a topnotch parade and concert band which introduced the “stutter step” and the “crash halt” as part of its marvelous stunt formations. Not only did band members also sing, but now they even began four part vocal harmony.

The current band, meeting every Tuesday night at Sunny gym, 5823 Kenwood, at 8 p.m., is building on its present membership of 25 players.

group. The formation of the , Southeast Chicago commission represents an effort on the part of the community to stay the tide of conversions and to maintain Hyde Park as a middle class residential area for all racial groups. Leadership in the commission is provided by the University of Chicago.”

UC sets policy

And again from the thesis: “In Woodlawn, a number of new apartment buildings have been erected both by the University of Chicago and by private builders. In addition, the University has bought a number of old building and remodeled them. They are attempting to raise the property values of the community by new building and to make the neighborhood more attractive to people in a higher income bracket.”

University policy is apparently aimed at maintaining Hyde Park and the northern portion of Woodlawn — Woodlawn lies between South Park Avenue and Lake Michigan, and 60th and 67th streets—as an interracial middle class residential area. However, judging from the experience of three law school students, this area can be said to be interracial only in a limited sense.

Students look for home

These three students, one of them Negro, started searching for an apartment together on September 18 of this year. At first they went to real estate agents. All three of them, well dressed and over 21, went through approximately the same routine each time they entered a real estate office. They spoke to a secretary, telling her they were willing to take anything from 4^ to seven rooms anywhere from Maryland to Harper and from 47th to 59th streets. The secretary gave them a list of places. They were asked to fill out an application, and told that the renting agent had to speak to the owner, and so they should wait until phoned.

After this, they attempted phoning, using numbers given in newspaper classified sections. They called about 60 places in this way, were told to see various superintendents, and after deciding, in most cases, to rent, were either given the application routine or told that students aren’t a good risk or that the owner was away on vacation.

All attempts unsuccessful

Next they tried agents who dealt in Negro real estate, but these agents were willing to rent only at prohibitive prices. In all these attempts they had references from law school officials and prominent men both in the city and elsewhere.

On September 26 they were rented a place by the landlord’s wife, who evidently didn’t detect the skin color of one of them, for later the landlord told them that he wanted to serve notice on them. On October 1 they abandoned the struggle and split up, having tried real estate agents, newspaper ads, and several housing file addresses. Only one of the places they tried said an outright, “We don’t take Negroes.*

Visits cause eviction

There have even been two See ’Housing/ page 12 THE CHICAGO MAROON

December 3, 1954

Playwrights Shakuntala creative; fantasy varied, flavor refreshing

A colorful Indian fantasy is now in performance at Playwrights. In their production of Shakuntala by Kalidasa (written between the first and third centuries), the directors have incorporated material from Kalidasa’s sources, the Mahabarhata and the Ramayana, resulting in a rich creative presentation.

The attractive feature of Shakuntala is its wholehearted spirit of abandon, its refreshing spirit of “diversified and un^onfined play.” One happily notes Kalidasa’s ignorance of stage conventions and the absence of

the usual “unities.” This is not to say that Shakuntala is one big bundle of confused frolic, for the central theme is of a serious, touching folk nature. Yet all artifice is dropped and the simple, varied sentiments of the participants are allowed free reign.

in bare outline the plot concerns a youthful, good-natured king with an intense desire for a son, the king’s selfish high priest, and a humble yet perceptive, prophetic hermit. The priest, while praying intensely for a son for the king, gets sidetracked by a beautiful nymph who promises him a son, and the result is his daughter, Shakuntala, whom who is adopted

Shakuntala is young girl, and dentally meets

he curses and by the hermit.

a gentle sweet when she accithe king some

years later in her guardian's hermitage, the two fall in love. The king vanishes and Shakuntala sits quietly in her garden, convinced that they shall one day be reunited; and thus they are — through the adoration of the king's chief sculptor (who uses her as his model for an inspired sculpture which delights the king, and causes him to send for the model'; and through the innocence and adventurousness of

their son.

Through all the diverse facets of the play: Shakuntala’s soft firm determination to regain her forgetful lover, and the boyishness and boisterousness of their son; the hilarious comic interlude with the clever, sharptongued mendicant and his dealings with a gullible merchant and the merchant’s amusingly sluttish wife; through the ado ration for Shakuntala of the chief sculptor who is also the frenzied museum guide, who hundreds of years later is entranced by the sculpture; through all this runs the stream of a vivid, colorful fantasy, varied in scope, legendary in character, free in spirit.

Unfortunately, the cast seems to feel somewhat uneasy in some of the roles. Perhaps the unusual form of the play is the disrupting factor, but be that as it may, few of the cast are able to thrust themselves into the mood of the work. The impression was almost as if each actor had acted in a different key.

In particular, Edward Asner has a tendency to lean toward the grandiose in his roles; as the hermit, his accent nail'd diction and eloquent tone are out of place. Rolf Forsberg as the

king is unspectacular though competent, and Vernon Schwartz as Durvasas the highpriest portrays well the latter’s vicious, morbid nature.

Shakuntala is sensitive!}' played by Sarah Mineo and Ranne Sioux’ characterization of her son ^ replete with boyish gusto. To this reviewer, the most pleasant aspect of the production was Antony Holland’s clear, pointed Madhavya, the mendicant. His very pronounced and somewhat artificial diction fitted very well into the part of a clever roguish hypocrite.

The Manipuri dancing of Nina Guha is absorbing; particularly so, was her exquisite use of her hands. In fact, throughout the performance this device — manipulation of the hands (mostly on the part of the women)—did much to enhance the expression.

The latest point of interest is the simple setting, which consisted of four or five large screens at angles to each other and proved appropriate for the many tableaux. Yet in certain significant, intense scenes a more vivid, imaginative background would have been preferable. Joel Picliery

Eye Examinations

Visual Training

Dr. Kurt Rosenbaum

optometrist

1132 E. 55th Street

HYde Park 3-8372

The AMERICAN OPERA CO. presents

RIGOLETTO

by Verdi — in Italian

Featuring SHEILA MEYERS, 12year-old Soprano, plus full cast, chorus and orchestra.

EDWARD EARLY, Conductor

INTERNATIONAL ROUSE

Saturday, Dec. II — 1:15 P.M.

Ticket.: $1.50, $2, $2.50, $3

A CASA Book Store

CHRISTMAS CARDS

CONTEMPORARY IMPORTED

CONVENTIONAL FOREIGN LANGUAGE

Featuring one of the largest and most distinctive collections of 5c cards in the city

HY 3-65l

1117 E. 55th Street

ANYTHING

at the HYDE PARK LETTER SHOP

5646 S. Harper Ave. (37>

HY 3-5343

 

Grace Creswell sings folk songs in Mandel

Grace Creswell, soprano, will present a program of American folk songs at the fourth University of Chicago concert of the season on Friday.

English and Scotch ballads as preserved in the Southern Appalachian mountains will provide the program for the concert, to be held at 8:30 p.m. in Mandel hall.

Miss Creswell, who grew up in

the Tennessee mountains, formerly conducted a radio program. “The Hill Girl,” in Nashville, Tennessee. She has sung her special brand of folk music at concerts on the campuses of universities all over the country.

UNIVERSITY BARBER SHOP

1453 E. 57th

/ Fine haircutting

Two barbers working

Floyd C. Arnold Proprietor

HELP WANTED

JAPAN ART SHOP Shop small but reliable 1342 E. 55 St. Ml 3-9408

‘'Enjoy Our l ine Continental Cuisine in Relaxed Atmosphere'9

CONTINENTAL GOURMET RESTAURANT

Open Doily (except Mondays' from 4:30 - 10:00 Sundays — 12 Noon - 10 P.M.

I30 E. 57th Street Phone Pl aza 2-fl

: We need men who are interested in selling. You : do not need to be experienced. If you can obtain : 2 the use of a car and are willing to learn, we will ; = pay a guaranteed salary, a very high commission, E and a bonus. Only three sales means $135 in your : * pocket. Work evenings and weekends at your ; = convenience. This will not interfere with school. E No matter what your field, you must be able to : = sell yourself. We will teach you while you earn. ;

5 Call HU 6-0583 anytime before Thursday.

E Ask for Mr. Golden

 

Candy is dandy, liquor is quicker..

Jimmy’s

1172 E. 55th

c/ma. /I dd& r>^<

W^WU

Cl oisi er Club 9 12

We///e Shi/Zer / his Or^he^tra

Dec. 4

This A<l is M>Hh '15<>0

on the purchase

of this complete

HIGH FIDELITY SYSTEM

|c0M0 PIZZERIA

1520 E. 55th St.

Golden Brown Southern Fried Chicken Delivered $1.00

Delivery Anywhere

FA 4-5525

A SEASONABLE THOUQHT:

Our stock includes a fine selection of

IMPORTED BOOKS

in all fields at civilized prices

Handsomely yifl-trrapped mailed free in the U.S.

SCHNEEMANN'S Red Door Book Shop 1328 East 57th Street NOrmal 7-611 1

‘'Kook-Cellar to the Unirersity Community"

Bell Model 2122C Amplifier

Triple-Play Cartridge

Permoflux Diminuefta Speaker System

and enjoy a professional home music system of your own.

less f X If you bring this ad.

Garrard Model T Record Player

Open Wed. evenings to 9.

W Visit us f and see the latest ’ equipment in Hi Fi.

• Easy Lay-A-Way Plan

• Convenient Time Payments Generous Trade-in Allowances

Bting this ad to

DDFI arthur

HIM nagel,

Hours: 9 a m to 6 p.m., Mbn. thru Sot.

918 East 55th Street, Butterfield 8-5050 December 1, 1954

THE CHICAGO MAROON

Rage 9

Italian film depicts miners’ trip Twelve year old stars etviiwip ttivmiuh nine tnv aiwwti *^ even older opera

struggle through alps for work

The Path of Hope, an Italian film with English subtitles, is opening in Chicago today at the Cinema Annex, 3210 Madison. The film deals with a group of Sicilian sulphur miners who, unable to support themselves, leave with their families in order to find work in France.

To afford the illegal entry which they must make, the Italian villagers take a long and difficult trip through northern Italy, and over the Alps. Many give up hope before France

An debut

International house audience will hear the operatic

of a twelve-year-old soprano from Gary, Indiana, or December 11, when the loop’s well known American Opera company will travel out here for a special performance of Verdi’s Rigoletto.

is reached.

Raf Vallone plays a widow<.r with three children who manages to save the beautiful Elena Varzi from a bandit during the course of the journey.

When It seems that the limit of endurance is reached they arrive at the frontier. There they are surprised by French and Italian guards on skis. "Where are you coming from?” asks the French guard. "From Sicily,” is the answer. In amazement and pity the Frenchman looks at the men, the women, and the children, who

have traveled across a whole country for a chance at life in a new land.

Exhaustion, desperation, entreaty are written on their faces. Their hopes, their lives are in his hands; without a word, with a gesture of understanding he glides away. The other guards follow. The journey is over. Hope lies beyond.

Many critics have railed this

film, the Italian Salt of the Earth. It was directed by Pietro Germi, and was filmed in Italy, Sicily, anti the Alps. The project involved such feats as photography six thousand feet high in the snowy Alps, and the playing of scenes 1200 feet down in a sulphur mine. Crowd scenes arid bit parts were taken from life. The movie took five months to complete.

Mme. Anna Del Preda, general director of the opera company and “discoverer” of the American Opera company said re Playwrights Theatre Club

1205 N. Dearborn

TONIGHT AT 7.30

Tues, thru Sat. 8:30 rhe romantic Hindu fantasy

SHAKUNTALA

authentic Manipuri donees for phone resv. & memberships

Call WHiteholl 3-2272

CHILDREN'S THEATRE This Afternoon at 2:30 flans Christian Andersen's

''The Emperor's New Clothes"

Glee club to premier Provencal carols excavated from UC library

The University Glee club, conducted by Peter Gram Swing, will present its annual Christmas concert in Bond chapel next Friday at 8 p.m.

Featured on the program will be two Provencal carols never before sung in the United States, and of which Harper library

has one of the only two extant copies. A motet by Thomas

included in the program Are Byrd,

Tallis, “O Nata Lux,” will also be given for the first time in Chicago,

From the Magnificat in FFlat by J. S. Bach, the Glee club will sing “Vom Himmel Hoch.” Also

INTERNATIONAL HOUSE MOVIES

East Eounyr, ft on. A Thurs. Eves, al 7:00 A 0:00 P.M.

Monday, Dec. 6, 45c — Tight Little Island (British)

Thursday, Dec. 9, 35c — Chaplin Festival A (American)

"Salve Sanctus Parens,” Holst, “On Christmas Day,” Brahms, "Marienlieder,” a collection of Hebrew Christmas music, Sweelinck, “Hodie Christus Natus Est,” and J. S, Bach, “To Thee Alone Be Glory,” from Cantata 41.

Accompanying the Glee club on Bond chapel’s baroque organ will be William Hutchinson.

UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO

APPOINTMENT CALENDAR

A beautiful 8’2 x 11 -inch calendar, printed in two colors, with a campus scene on every page.

AVAILABLE DEC. 10, AT U. OF C. BOOKSTORE

STUDENT PRICE $1

no 7 907i hyde park theatre student rote 50c Now ploying

lake park at 53rd

Winner of New York Ondine.

Audrey Hepburn the Best Actress Academy Award in 1954 , critics' best female performance award for winner of

her stoge

hit

wiiiiam Wyler's Sabrina

Wilder's Roman Holiday

Both rated current and choice — Time magazine.

Coming soon: Caine Mutiny, Reor Window: High and Dry; Bread, Love and Dreams; Mr. Hulot's Holiday, and Flomenceau.

NICKYS

PIZZERIA & RESTAURANT

1235 E. 55th Street

NO 7-9063

Free deli rertf tn V. of C. students On any order

Quick

Courteous Service — 6 Days a Week

Table

11 AM.

Service to 2 A.M.

Delivery Service

5 P.M. to 2 A.M.

Open

SHI 3 A.ft. an Friday and Saturday

Nick Bova — Florist 5239 Harper Ave. Ml 3-4226 STUDENT DISCOUNT DELIVERY SERVICE

The TA •

Disc

1369 E. 57th St.

Record

of the week

Britten — Ceremony of Carols

Copenhagen Boy's Choir conducted by Britten

LD 9102

$2.95

the happiest music alive

D1XHMB

Featuring the

DIXIE DUKES

Saturday night

Open till 4 fir 5 A.M.

Free Parking across the street

AVALON COCKTAIL LOUNGE (FORMERLY THE ST. MORITZ) 1629 E. 79 St.

RE 4-8729

unusual young singer, will bring Sheila Meyers, whom she calls "a beautiful twelve-yearold child with the voice of a woman,” to head a specially chosen cast for the Verdi opera. Supporting Sheila, who will sing the role of Gilda, will be Le Moyne Hohenstein as Rigoletto and a cast that includes Bert Sterling, Ambrose Lo Presti, Beatrice Rieger. Francis Di Simini, George Gaynor. Ralfe Sanberg, Gene Corbin and Greta Ynve. Chorus and orchestra, made up of members of the Chicago Civic Opera company, will round out the production. Maestro Edward Early will conduct.

Sheila Meyers is the youngest singer Mme. Del Preda has ever encountered in 25 years of opera management to undertake a full length opera role in a major pro duction, the noted head of the

cently. This will be Sheila's debut, although she has a background in music, dancing and dramatics; she has sung, danced, and appeared in school affairs and has sung on Chicago radio stations but this will be her first big-time venture. The Rigoletto production at International house on December 11 will begin at 8:15 p.m.

Ticket prices are $1.50. $2. $2.50, and $3; all UC students may claim a 20 per cent discount on identification.

Open art show

An exhibit of paintings, drawings, prints, and small sculpture will open Saturday at 8 p.m. in Goodspeed with a holiday party for members and guests of the Renaissance so ciety.

Fifth annual performance of Handel’s Messiah this Sunday

The University of Chicago choir and members of the Chicago Symphony orchestra will give a performance of Handel’s Messiah Sunday at 3 p.m. in Rockefeller chapel.

Student tickets at $1 are available today only; an ID card is required. Tickets are available on campus at the chapel office. Student Service center in the Reynolds club, and Woodworth’s bookstore. General admission is $2. organist.

This fifth annual performance of the Messiah by the University choir will be given by a chorus of 42 and an orchestra of 21 players. Handel’s original score will be played in this Baroque performance Messiah. (A Mozart arrangement is commonly used.)

Richard Vikstrom will conduct and the soloists are Denis Cowan, tenor; Audrey Paul, contralto; Kay Graves, bass; Dorothy Krieg, soprano; and Heinrich Fleischer,

Books Are Gifts of Lasting Value

Give BOOKS for Christmas!

PICASSO AND THE HUMAN 

A suite of 180 drawings by Picasso concerned with the comedy of love. A collector's item — already out of print!

POEMS, 1923-1954, by Cummings 6.75

Brings together for the first time all the poems from oil the collections of verse Cummings has published to dote. *

AS I SEE, by Artxybosheft

More than 100 drawings and two full-color paintings, along with notes and commentary by the artist.

$ 7.50

WOODLAND PORTRAITS, by Klute 

A collection of superb nature photographs, with photographic data about each picture

GOTHIC PAINTING — EGYPTIAN PAINTING .. each $20.00

The two latest volumes in Skiro's Great Centuries of Painting series 

w

University of Chicago Bookstore

5802 Ellis Avenue

You are cordially invited to a

Free Lecture on Christian Science

entitled “Christian Science: The way of Health and Security*9

By Ella H. Hay, C.S., Member of the Board of Lectureship of The Mother Church, The First Church of Christ, Scientist, in Boston, Massachusetts.

Tenth Church of Christ, Scientist

Of Chicago

Ch nr ch Edifice. 5010 Blackstone Avenue

THURSDAY, DEC. 9, 1954

At 8:00 P.M.

Doors open at 7:15 P.M.

J Page 10

THE CHICAGO MAROON

December 3, 1954

Track Club 2nd in national contest; lose only to New York Athletic Club

Last Sunday the UC Track Club cross country team turned in a great team performance to upset long-established Eastern team standings in the National AAU 10,000-meter US cross country championship which was sponsored by the Penn athletic club on a rugged 6.4-mile course in Fairmont park, Philadelphia. The UCTC entered a full eight-man team composed of Paul Baptist, Phil Coleman, Walt Deike, Jim Flynn, Lowell Hawkinson, Hal Higdon, Law Frosh-soph basketbailers split two

In spite of a frosh-soph basketball loss to Westcott Vocational school’s juniors earlier yesterday afternoon, 30-24, Joe Stamp Fs JV team came back to beat the senior team, 30-22, in Bartlett.

High scorers for U-high were Ray Hardvall, forward, and Joel Wolff, center, each with eight points.

ton Lamb, and Art Omohundro. Mw I*

When the final results were In, the New York athletic club, perennial team champions emerged with a narrow three point win. scoring 45. points to UC’s total of 48. The* Penn AC which had been expected to give New York AC its toughest competition finished in third place with 49 points. The New York Pioneer club was fourth with 98; Shanahan C.C. finished fifth with 107; Penn AC “B” team was sixth with 134; and the Baltimore Olympians placed seventh with 149.

Individually the Maroon harriers ran well. Phil Coleman, former Southern Illinois University runner, placed fourth behind Goddon Mc Kenzie of the New York Pioneer club. Browning Ross of the Penn AC. and Horace Ashenfelter of the New York AC. Walt Deike placed 10th; Hal Higdon, 11th; Lawton Lamb, 15th; Jim

List statistics

In eleven weeks of running, 19 members of the cross country team have traveled a total of 4,325 miles, most of them in Washington park. This distance, which literally stretches across the country, breaks down to an average per runner of 227 miles for eleven weeks, or about 20 miles per week.

Flynn, 23rd; Paul Baptist, 28; Art Omohundro, 30; and Lowell Hawkinson, 51; in the field of sixty runners.

Closeness of the team score can be indicated by the fact that New York AC scored 3, 6, 9, 10, and 17, while UC scored 4, 7, 8, 11, and 18, in the team scoring after unattached runners were eliminated. The New York team consisted of former Champions Horace and Bill Ashenfelter, Curtis Stone, Fred Schoeffler, and Charles Trayford.

ALEXANDER’S RESTAURANT

1137 E. 63 Street

MU 4 5735

More than just a good place to eat We cater to parties and banquets

1

TERRY’S PIZZA

finest pizzas made

Sports Calendar

Today: Swimming, Wright Jr. College, 3:30 p.m., Bartlett pool.

Tomorrow: Basketball, Chicago Teachers, 8 p.m., Fieldhouse.

Tuesday: JV Basketball, Calumet H. S., 3:15 p.m,, Bartlett gym.

Wednesday: Basketball, III. Prof. Schools, 8 p.m., Fieldhouse.

5

FREE DELIVERY TO

ALL UC STUDENTS

1

SMALL

MEDIUM

1.00

1.45

He also carry a full

LARGE

GIANT

1.95

2.95

’

i

line of Italian foods

1 1518 E. 63rd St.

Ml 3-4045

HOME PLASTICS

Draperies - Curtains - Rainware 10 % Student Discount

1303 E. 55th Street

NO 7-5696

TREE BEING FELLED BY MIDGET ANO TALL MIENO

Donald O. Kistner Texas Tech

GIRL WITH PONY TAK. RIDING PONY

William H. Harris Washington State College

Students' Favorite

LAUNDROMAT

For the Past Six Years 1. Efficient Laundromat Service

2. Shirts - Flat Work All Laundry Services

3. Lowest Prices in Hyde Park

Come In and See Our Newly Remodeled Store with the LATEST Equipment

UNIVERSITY LAUNDROMAT

1376 E. 55th St. PL 2-9097

LADY SCRUTINIZING SELF IN MIRROR AFTER USING VANISHING CREAM

Lili Whitfield University of North Carolina

SWISS CHEESE MAOI AT I.B.M. MACHINS

Mort Fink

Brooklyn College

p^^

New "Silvered-Tip" writes

the way you do medium or broad

. fine, without changing points. Refills available in blue, red, green or black ink. Get a Paper-Mate Pen today!

♦ Bankers approve

• Ink can’t smear. . or transfer

• Can’t leak

Silvered-Tip refills •.. 49#

vnont n

UMM FIr ,, Traded ’

ACCORDING TO THE LARGEST and latest coast-to-coast college survey, college smokers prefer Luckies—and by a wide margin. The No. 1 reason: Luckies taste better. Thousands of students appreciate Luckies’ better taste almost as much as the pair in the Droodle above, titled: Sweethearts attempting to kiss and enjoy better-tasting Luckies at same time. Luckies taste better for good reasons. First of all, Lucky Strike means fine tobacco. Then, “It's Toasted” to taste better. This famous Lucky Strike process tones up Luckies’ light, good-tasting tobacco to make it taste even better—cleaner, fresher, smoother. So,

enjoy the better-tasting cigarette

Lucky Strike.

pettea taste Luckies

LUCKIES TASTE BETTER

CLEANER, FRESHER, SMOOTHERl

a—

AMBRICA’f LBAPINO MANUFACTURES OF CTGABBTTB8

Lucky Droodleu* are pouring in! Where are yours? We pay $25 for all we use, and for many we don’t use. So send every original Droodle in your noodle, with its descriptive title, to Lucky Droodle, P.O. Box 67, New Yo k 46, N.Y.

•DROODLES, Copyright 1053, by Roger Price

s—s. EARN $25|

MELTED SNOWMAN

William F. Eicker

©A.T.C* Ht OOVCtop |

Ci CARETTe S December 3, 1954

THE CHICAGO MAROON

Page 11 Sports Briefs Professor Finer flails fighters;

Is told sportmanship is corny

Evidently operating on the principle that political science students and faculty don’t read the sports pages of Daily News, Professor Herman Finer dashed off a few caustic comments on a recent , hampionship fight.

Former welterweight Finer—who still enjoys the pugilistic game over about the phony alibis and bad sportsmanship of one of the fighters. “Aren’t we all tired to death of clinches and rabbit-punches, and men who instead of appreciating the superiority of the other man, try to find alibis? What kind of lesson is this to our youth?”

Daily News sportswriter Jack Mabley replied (in part): “Dear Herman, don’t bring youth into it. If our youths are going to get their moral inspiration from what they see in the boxing ring and on television, we’re due for some rough years ... Sportsmanship? Don’t be corny.”

U C wins basketball start

Maroon basketball fans, that select few, went home smiling through their tears Wednesday night after the varsity opened their 1954-55 season by trouncing the Fifth Army headquarters team 71 to 49. Although the score was high the caliber of play was low, and it was only the ineptness of the opposition which prevented a different outcome.

A typical early season game, it was rough and very ragged, and the roughhouse was not curbed by the erratic foul calling of the referees. At some times the most blatant fouls were

Justin Johnson runs again

Justin Johnson, who used to run—and win—the high hurdles and the broad jump for the UC track team, ran—and lost—a 220-yard dash for the US Air Force recently. He picked up second in the race. Johnson, who used to be reached at BJ, now needs this information on his letters: A/C Justin M. Johnson, AD 13518996; Group 6, Squadron 1, Flight 2; Box 1540; Lackland Air Force Base, San Antonio, Texas Wrestlers beat Bible Institute

Alan Bates’ “tigers” proved themselves by defeating an undermanned Moody Bible Institute team Tuesday in a practice meet. Their opponents brought only three wrestlers to the meet, and all three were beaten by Bates’ boys.

PHOTOGRAPHERS

MIDWAY 3 4433

1171 EAST 55th STREET

 

R E
D

H O
T S

A SNACK

A LUNCH

A MEAL

On a freshly steamed bun, we tenderly place the puppy dog — not a wiener, but a VIENNA puppy dog — red hot — pure

beef — accompanied by mustard, relish, onions and hot pepper, complete with a generous portion of our

25

ignored while at others body contact alone was enough to provoke a penalty. Even a technical foul, on Al Binford for bouncing the ball too hard after a penalty call, failed to halt the mayhem.

High scorer for the Maroons was Bill Lester, the only letter winning guard returning from last season. Although the smallest man on the floor throughout much of the game, Bill was outstanding on defense as well as contributing 25 points to the varsity total.

Coach Norgren started a veteran squad including four members of last year’s team. They started very slowly, but were never behind due to Army’s lack of scoring punch and their own fair defensive rebounding which rarely allowed the Army more than three shots at the basket, which was not enough for them. Fred Hubbard, who played center through most of the game, was his usual smooth self, sometimes amazing his teammates as much as the opposition by his unexpected passes. Walter Walker, a freshman last year, showed improvement while putting up a solid game both on offense and defense.

The brightest spot in the picture was the newcomers’ performance. Joe Feinberg filled out the starting team and played good aggressive ball, particularly on defense before fouling out in the last quarter. Dick Rowland also contributed actively with 10 points, while Mitch Watkins, an outstanding player on the junior varsity last year, showed real

promise in this first varsity game.

Wayne was in bard a he will

Pomrehn, a 6'5" center briefly to give Fred Hubbreather, and looks like help, as will Jim Strawn,

give this year's team its first real test.

famous french fried potatoes which are often imitated but never excelled. Our NEDLOG orange and root beer is unequaled

and no extra charge out containers.

is made for carry

PUPPY TOWN

open until

1 A.M.

1351 E. 55th Street

DO 3-9366

Louise Barker photographer “who captures your personality as well as your person”

1457 E. 57th St. BU 8-0876

— Orders over $1.00 delivered 5

 tg h CEl BEA

SOUTHERN COLONEL

Historic

Thomas Jefferson Kit

FREE

Gifts

Gift of interest in Thomas jeffer. son Land, 4 square inches — ' Southern Plantation” as described •n Free Document (7H”x16") your name Lettered on Document.

FREE

Handsome Colonel’s Certificate giving you the rank of Colonel in 'The Confederate States.” (8'/j *11”) your name in Old English style letters.

FREE

Short history of the Life and Works of Thomas Jefferson-with his picture (printed on back of Land Document)

ALL ABOVE GIVEN ONLY $1.00 — A DECLARATION OF

FREE —WHEN

, Coo^^efe

& 0

YOU PURCHASE —FOR

HANDSOME COPY (H ”xl7”) of THE INDEPENDENCE — EVERY AMERICAN

HOME SHOULD HAVE THIS GREAT DOCUMENT FRAMED Print Name and Address and Send With $1.00 To Historical Properties. Inc., P. O. Box 884. Charlottesville. Virginia. Your Kit will be sent ta you promptly.

i W<J5Ra3iaoraau8^

another tall guy.

Saturday the Maroons will go against their first college competition of the year when they take on the Chicago Teachers team in the Field house at 8 p.m. Last year the Teachers gave the squad a sound thrashing in two games, 97 to 65 and 80 to 51. They will

Chicago

Fifth Army BQS

 Pg. Ft. F Pg. Ft. F. Feinberg 4 1 5 Larson 0 3 Garcia 0 2* 2 Halen 2 1 6 Hubbard 3 3 1 Terhars 5 0 4 Rowland 4 2 4 Olsen 1 9 4 Van Wie 0 0 0 Vermer 5 1 Binford 0 0 1 Hohold 1 5 Chisholm 1 1 1 Tanner 0 6 1 Pomrehn 0 0 II Merril 0 0 3 Strawn 0 0 0 Heuer 0 0 3 Lester 8 9 0 Kauss 2 1 2 Thompson 0 0 0 Kunitz 0 0 0 16 25 Walker 3 1 Watkins 2 2 0 25

21

15

WAA bows twice in

volleyball;

Kelly leads 'plaque' contest

Despite attempts by the Women’s Athletic association's varsity volleyball team, Wheaton college maintained a slim second-half margin to win 27-25 Tuesday in Ida Noyes. This,

the final game of the season, gave the UC team a record of two wins and seven defeats.

Earlier in the week the varsity team lost to Navy Pier by 33-20.

In this year’s interdormitory competition for the WAA plaque Kelly leads with 15 points, five from places won in the volleyball tournament and ten from places won in the swimming marathon. Green is second, with 13, ten from

national headquarters are pared with those of twenty colleges and universities, ten scores are entered.

com01 her High

volleyball and ming, Foster volleyball and for a total of

three from swimgained three in five in swimming eight, and Gates’

lone point came from the swimming competition.

Points won in volleyball were tabulated on the basis of a threegame tournament. Green won two games, downing Foster 41-26 and dropping Kelly, 34-26. Kelly won the remaining game for Foster, 34-22.

Results of the 16th annual intercollegiate telegraphic bowling meet held yesterday afternoon in Ida Noyes alleys won’t be known until the scores telegraphed to

28 swimmers vie for places in meet today

When coach Moyles’ swimming squad takes on their first competition of the season today no less than 28 swimmers will be trying for places on the first string in the ten-event meet.

Included among the outstanding prospects are Bob Geidt, ,. Lance Felker, Eob Herndon, Ron Crutchfield and Mike Mandel.

Intramural winner Bill Whitney and many others are also going to make the Chicago team tough this year. ,

Events in the meet include nine individual contests, and one relay, over 400 yards.

SAVE TIME — SAVE MONEY

N & R Bonded Movers — also — New and Used Furniture

Ml 3-4196 1510 E. 55th

Gourmet's Corner

Stationery

Exquisitely bejeweled ladies' slippers from the Philippines. Each pair is completely hand-made ond of a different design and color. Price $4.95.

FLY UNITED AIR COACH

MOTOR TUNE UP

$5.95

six-cylinder cars

JEWEL CONOCO

Service Station and Perfect Car Wash — 5GO1 South Cottage Grove MU 4-9106

Low fares, frequent schedules, and fast Hights on United’s 4-Engine Air Coaches help you make the most of your vacation.

ALSO

Famous 1st Class Mainliner Flights with fullcourse mealtime service at fares comparable to 1st Page 12

THE CHICAGO Ma ROON

December 3, 1954

Social Sciences praised in report published today

U. C. debaters at U. of Iowa

Student Forum debaters Michael Stanley, Joseph Engel,

Old 'bohemian' stronghold lacks funds, closes down

A Report on the Behavioral Sciences, a self-study prepared at UC and sponsored and financed by the Ford foundation, was released by the University of Chicago press today.

The report praised the “research-oriented” faculty, divisional organization, caliber of the students, facilities, and public relations program; but criticized the shifting of University funds from general ' “

funds to specific “projects.”

Recommendations of the report include changes in organization of behavioral sciences, the establishment of fellowships and scholarships, and allotment of funds for informing the public of work.

“The committee is impressed with the genuine strength of the University in the area of the behavioral sciences, which it matched only by interest in its further development,” said Sol Tax. professor of anthropology and chairman of the committee in charge of the study. “We find this interest in every division in the Universify, in the professional schools, and in the college. The method of attack varies greatly, but recognition of the importance of understanding human behavior is at every hand.”

Five schools participate

The division of behavioral sciences of the Ford foundation invited 15 universities to submit proposals for study of their own

havioral sciences comes from “creative specialized researches in an atmosphere which welcomes diversity and encourages critical discussion,” and professional schools play an important role in this research.

Standards may be endangered

But the report warns that the University’s freedom and high standards are “endangered by a shift ... of financial support from general University funds to restricted “project” funds and that the University tends too much toward making its new enterprises into permanent commitments.

Members of the committee that prepared the report are Tax; Benjamin S. Bloom, UC examiner and professor of education; Everett C. Hughes, chairman of the sociology department; Howard F. Hunt, associate professor of psychology; Edward H. Levi, dean of the law’ school; and Robert Redfield. Robert M. Hutchins distinguished service professor of anthropology.

Roger Bowen, and John Merrill left yesterday for the University of Iowa, where they will participate in a debate tournament today and tomorrow on the question “Resolved: that the United States should extend diplomatic recognition to the Communist government of China.”

A Chicago team consisting of Richard Johnson, Engel, Holly O’Connor, and Paul Weiss compiled a record of five victories and three defeats on the same topic at the Bradley invitational tournament November 19 and 20.

The affirmative team of Engel and Johnson won all four of their debates, meriting the highest award of the tournament, a “superior” certificate, an honor shared with only twelve of the 142 affirmative debaters competing.

Laborite to talk on British policy

Dr. David Ginsburg, director of the research department of the British Labor party, will speak at 4:30 this afternoon in Social Science 107.

He will answer questions concerning British politics, including foreign and domestic policy and intra-party problems.

Whitman Co-op house, once famous stronghold of “bohemianism” on the UC campus and one of the last remaining coeducational student co-ops in the country, finally folded last month.

Financial straits and a lack of members finally forced the collapse of the house, which has been taking tremendous losses

Carnegie Corp, grants a million for education

Exploring important new developments on the educational scene is one basic goal of grants amounting to $1,281,000 announced this week by the Carnegie corporation.

Among the grants is one of $200,000, which will be divided equally among Chicago, Columbia, Harvard, aud Yale, to continue for two more years a program of “internships” in general education.

Under this plan, started three years ago with corporation support, faculty members from smaller colleges participate in the “imaginative general education programs” at the four universities. "Their experience enables smaller colleges to benefit from the pioneering work of the larger schools.”

for the last three years. The house has now been vacated

and the furniture sold, and the

building itself is up for sale.

In fall 1951 the administration prohibited the students from living in Whitman because of alleged insufficient separation of the sexes. (Women lived on the second floor of the house and men on the third.) Prior to this ban 50 per cent or more of Whitmanites had been students.

The same year the house sustained a total loss of approximately $5,000. The tailspin continued into last year, and then things leveled off. But this fall the house suddenly found itself with practically no residents. It took several hundred dollars loss for two months and then called it quits.

Whitman house is owned by United Co-operative Projects, which once operated five housing co-ops in the Hyde Park area’ UCP now has one operating house left, Ingleside house for family units.

activities in the behavioral sciences. Of the 14 universities that did so, the foundation chose the proposals of Harvard. Stanford, North Carolina, Michigan, and Chicago, and gave each $50,000 with which to conduct its study.

In accordance with the foundation’s specifications for the general form of the study, Chancellor Lawrence A. Kimpton in the summer of 1953 appointed a committee of six faculty members to complete the study.

The committee found that “the University has the initial advantage of a faculty predominantly oriented toward research” and that the “grouping of departments into divisions has encouraged a tremendous interchange of ideas.” One of the strengths of UC’s be Housing...

(from page 7) cases of eviction this quarter stemming from Negroes visiting the apartments of white students. In one of these, it is reported, six tenants made racist comments in the presence of the visitors. In the other the student leasing the apartment didn’t know of her neighbor’s feelings until told by her real estate agent.

Discriminatory listings in the University housing file seem to reflect, then, discriminatory feeling and practice in the Hyde Park community, a community in which the appraised value of University real estate is nearly twenty million dollars and in which leadership, by virtue of the Southeast Chicago commission, “is provided by the University of Chicago.”

Choice of Over 100

University Travel Co., official bonded agents for all lines, hat rendered efficient travel service on a business basis since 1926

in

UNIVERSITY TRAVEL; CO. Harvard Sq., Cambridge, Mass.

in '55

Round Trip via Steamship $0QA FREQUENT SAILINGS 40 V

Tourist Round Trip Air

*365” X ’424" —

STUDENT CLASS TOURS $£ A A TRAVEL STUDY TOURS u w

CONDUCTED TOURS up

See your local travel agent for folder* and detail* or writ* *

w<;

The Most Popular 2-Way Cigarette (Regular & King Size) for every smoker on your list/

“HOME FOR CHRISTMAS”-Gift package of the season —colorful —attractive —designed by the famous artist, Stevan Dohanos. Remember all your smoking friends with the gift that really Best to give—best to smoke.

f^eu^a^j^y

Chesterfield for a Happy Holiday