University of Chicago, November 19, 1954

Fermi wins $25,000 AEC special award

Enrico Fermi, Charles H. Swift distinguished service professor in the department of physics and the institute for nuclear studies, became the first winner Wednesday of a special award of $25,000 from the Atomic Energy commission.

The award was presented to Fermi for his “especially meritorious contributions” in atomic energy.

Aiderman Merriam talks here,

possible candidate for mayor

Seeks support for Kis views; no party preference

Describing himself as an independent in Chicago politics, Robert Merriam, aiderman from the fifth ward, said Sunday: “I have a great many policies that I would like to incorporate into the city government and I always welcome the support of anyone who holds similar views— no matter what his party affiliation I wouldn’t object to running as a Republican if that party shows an interest in my aims.”

He continued, “If I find that enough individuals hold v i e wr s similar to mine and desire that I run for mayor to develop these aims within our city government, I would certainly consider doing so.”

Merriam, who is being widely discussed as a possible candidate for mayor in the election next year, was interviewed following a lecture that he delivered at the Calvert club last Sunday.

He said that members of both the Republican party and the Independent Voters of Illinois “have approached me on this subject, but there is nothing in any way official.”

Runner Deike makes his mark

Cross country star Walt Deike broke his own varsity three and four-mile records Wednesday in

one race.

He broke the three-mile record that he set three weeks ago against Wisconsin state by nine seconds, turning 15:21. Continuing for a mile, he still shaved fourtenths of a second off the rec Deike

ord he set Saturday against Washington U., winning in 20:33.

Deike also holds the varsity indoor two-mile record of 9:19 which he set last February.

Flanders nods OK to 'amusing' soap-drive

Senator Flanders, replying to a request by Robin Hood’s Merrie Men that he present signed soap-tags to the Senate, stated that “After considering the matter, I think it would be wise for me under present

conditions not to engage in your laudable campaign, but your undertaking should still go on.”

Flanders wrote in regard to procensure soap-tags which were signed by 900 individual students during a campus campaign initiated by the Robin Hood club to pre Maroon takes day off

The Maroon will appear on Saturday instead of Friday next week. ' x

Happy Thanksgiving!

Regular publication will be resumed with the issue of Friday, Dec. 3.

Aiderman Robert Merriam speaking to Leslie van Martes, chairman of the program committee of the Calvert club, Ralph Massey, president of the group, and Father Connerton, advisor to the group.

Conservation of community is schoo Vs obligation: Merriam

“The panic of people running to the suburbs is purely psychological In the Hyde Park area, this has slowed down to a mere trickle,” said Robert Merriam in a lecture given at the Calvert club last Sunday. Merriam, city council representative from the fifth ward, which includes the University, spoke on

“Conserving our neighborhood.

“Middle areas are not so bad that they can’t be saved, and not so good that they can’t be improved.” He added that the Hyde Park-Kenwood communities belong in this category.

“If UC had started ten years ago to do what it is now doing under Chancellor Kimpton, the area would be in far better shape. What University interest and action there has been is quite effective The University should have and must have a continuing interest in the community since it is part of that community.”

In ordet to compete with the suburbs for citizens, the central areas of the cities must eliminate those evils which cause people to move, Merriam claimed. The Hyde Park Redevelopment project will create adequate recreational space, shopping facilities, and parking space for the area. By keeping through traffic off residential streets, quiet residential

Maroon mistimes Hitchcock party

Hardy pioneers who showed

up

last week for the annual Frontier party of Hitchcock house are advised to come back to Hitchcock basement tomorrow. The Maroon was one week off on the date.

Square dancing with Ned Chapin calling will be the main feature of the affair to begin at 8:15 p.m. Women will be admitted free.

vent a Senate whitewash of Mc Carthy.

At present the soap is being sent to Senator Douglas. The Merrie Men are urging him to speak in favor of the censure and to deliver the tags to the Senate effectively. They are also informing Douglas of similar campaigns successfully in progress at Wisconsin, Hunter, Michigan and other universities.

In his letter, Flanders also wrote that "Your undertaking is both amusing and serious. It is an amusing method to serve a serious purpose.”

neighborhoods can be created. The “road block” at Ingleside and 62nd street is an experiment along that line.

Private citizens and private institutions have obligations in maintaining the neighborhood. “Until recently, the University of Chicago has not met these obligations," Merriam said.

Mendes-France changes style, not French policy aims: Aron

by Alice Bloom

Pierre Mendes-France, the new premiere of France, represents a change in style of government, not in actual policies, maintained Raymond Aron, professor in the Institute of political science, University of Paris, and columnist for Le Figaro, in his lectures at Breasted hall, Monday and Tuesday evenings.

His success has been due to extraordinary cleverness and favorable circumstances said Aron. Mendes-France came to power at a time when there was a great popular demand for

an active government

The inactivity of the former government had piled crisis upon crisis; the accumulated events called for decisive action. “Mendes-France, who for 10 years had said the government was wrong, promised to find a solution to the mess, and the deputies gave him a chance.”

His deadline agreement on Indo China at the Geneva conference made him popular in France. On EDC his previous non-committal attitude to the problem placed him in a maneuverable position. When EDC failed to pass the assembly, Mendes-France was able to offer an alternative program.

“This was a return to the American plan of a German rearmament, but with the protective clauses of EDC. So, they used the Brussels treaty which was anti-Germany and added Germany with a British agreement to keep several divisions on the continent.

This pleased the U. S. because

there was German rearmament; Wednesday at the Shoreland hotel. Larry Sherman is chair*

France, because they got rid of EDC; the British because they were leading a united Europe.”

North Africa diverse

The North African question now pending is diverse because each protectorate presents a different nationalist problem. A desire to return to the old Moslem religious state plus a secular movement to attain power is the conflict in Morocco. In Algiers the large and influential French popu Fermi, confined ill to his home, declined immediate comment until after he had received formal notification of the award.

Rear admiral Lewis L. Strauss, chairman of the AEC, stated from Washington that the award, authorized in the Atomic Energy act of 1954, would be accompanied by a citation noting Fermi’s contribution to basic neutron physics and the achievement of “the con Arnold J. Toynbee to visit UC; historian to discuss world unity

Arnold J. Toynbee, author of A Study of History, will speak on “World unity and world history” at 2 p.m. Wednesday in Mandel hall, under the auspices of the Committee on Social

Thought.

A Study of History, Toynbee’s comprehensive analysis of civilization, was completed this year with the publicat'on of parts 6-13. The first volumes of Toynbee’s interpretation of the flow of

Court hears Solomon case Monday, constitutionality of law to be tested

The case of Solomon versus Student Government will be argued before the court in an open session Monday at 3:30 p.m. in law south.

Marcus Raskin, in his second quarter in the law school, will plead the case of Fred Solomon, who received eight write-in votes in the last SG election. The votes were disqualified on the basis of an SG law which calls for no writing on the ballots.

“We’re not questioning interpretation; it is a matter of constitutionality,” Solomon said.

Clark Kucheman, election and rules chairman of SG, and Eli Stein, former chairman of the committee on recognized student organizations, will speak for SG as Raskin argues that the law breaks the spirit of the Student Code.

lation is afraid of losing its French citizenship. The assembly is willing to grant autonomy to Tunisia, but Tunisians are rebelliously clamoring for full independence.

What would happen if France lost all her African holdings? Although some feel it would be an economic catastrophe, Aron felt that too much value was placed on protected economic markets.— If negotiations fail, Mendes France will be held responsible and if he yields too much in order to obtain an agreement, he’ll lose support. He is faced with a situation in which he has little freedom of maneuver.

Eight compete for IF queen;

crown winner at annual hop

The annual UC Interfraternity ball will be held next

man of the event, which features Phil Walsh’s orchestra and

the crowning of the 1954 Interfraternity queen by Chancellor Lawrence A. Kimpton. The ball is open only to fraternity men and their individual guests.

Candidates for queen and their sponsors are: Jane Bitterman, Phi Kappa Psi; Lyn Carter, Delta Upsilon; Rosemary Galli, Phi Gam- visor at the Patricia Stevens mod ma Delta; Jeanine Johnson, Alpha eling agency. The announcement Delta Phi; Jane Podolack, Psi Up- of the 1954 queen will be made af silon; Diane Sills, Beta Theta Pi; the ball.

trolled nuclear chain reaction.”

Fermi touched off the world’$ first controlled chain reaction in 1942 and had charge of the advanced physics division at the Lo? Alamos, N. M., atomic bomb laboratory during World War II. He was the first man to bombard uranium with neutrons and succeeded in splitting a uranium atom in 1934.

Fermi’s experiments won him the Nobel prize in 1938.

history appeared in 1934.

Educated at Balliol College, Oxford, Toynbee is director of studies of the Royal Institute of International Affairs and research professor of international history at the London School of Economics.

Thanksgiving

service set

A community Thanksgiving service, under the auspices of the Council of Hyde Park and Kenwood Churches and Synagogues, will be held at Rockefeller chapel on Thanksgiving morning at 11 a.m., announced the Reverend John B. Thompson, president ot the Council.

Rabbi Jacob Weinstein, of K.A.M. temple, will speak on the subject, “Thanksgiving: for what and to whom?”

Mary Joan Spiegel, Phi Delta Theta, and Ann Traill, Zeta Beta Tau.

Judges in the Queen contest* held Thursday, were Dean Robert M. Strozier, Ken Nordine, entertainer, and Arnie Bryson, super Page 2

THE CHICAGO MAROON

November 19, 1954

Classified Ads Coming campus events in brief

For Rent

Elderly man wishes to share 5-room apartment, south shore, with couple or Student. All privileges of home. PI 2-0774.

Local moving. Express service to and from depots. Rates reasonable. 1309 E. 60th, MU 4-0435, John Sutcliffe.

Radios and phonos for rent and sale. New. wholesale prices. Information, call Charles Becker. DO 3-6620.

Ride to New York wanted. Christmas vacation, by woman graduate student. Call International house 207.

For Sole

Will take care of infant or small child in mv home days. Yard. Reasonable. HY 3-6312.

Two camping chairs, desk, coffee table, bookcase, etc. Less than one year old. Reasonable. MI 3-5521.

Lost

Modern sectional sofa, grey: nine piece dining room set; business desk. SA 1-0164.

Because of travel, brand new encyclopedia. Funk and Wagnails. 36 volumes, 1953-54 edition. Will sell very cheap. Call DO 3-7282.

Ronson gem lighter, brown alligator with initial “B.” Sentimental value. Please call Barbara Iovine, MU 4-0116.

Personal

’49 Chevy, R.H. Good condition, reasonable. MI 3-4098 after 5 p.m.

Charles, meet me December 4, 9 p.m., Ida Noyes. All our friends will be there. Vamplra.

Save $665 on a new car! Buy a trade-in. ’39 Buick, running condition. Was offered $700 on a new Dodge. Price $35 total. MI 3-8743.

Yours — exotic pearl-grey and white tiger cat, two adorable striped kittens (housebroken)—if you provide congenial home. June Johannaber, ext. 3296, weekdays. HY 3-2723 evenings.

Wonted

Ride to Detroit area Thanksgiving weekend. Will share expenses. MU 4-5288 after 6 p.m.

Anyone interested in making telescopes meet every Saturday, Ryerson 52, 2-5 p.m. or call Elliott Moore, BJ.

“Horizontal Integration’’: University theatre—only 6 more performances of "The Enchanted.’’ This weekend Nov. 19-20-21. Thanksgiving weekend 26-27-28. Third floor Reynolds club, 8:30 p.m., $1.

Furnished apartment (or sublet) over Thanksgiving holidays. Call Bamberger, MI 3-0800, ext. 3427, or HY 3-4366.

I ooking for two girls from Champaign. Ill., who dined with parents last Saturday night at Evergreen Restaurant, Dundee, Ill. Please call Dundee 958 (reverse charges).

Services

Ramona: I waited on the Reynolds club seal all day Saturday. Aw, come on. Roger misses you. Z.B.

Mathematics, instruction to fit needs of individual or group. Soglin, ST 2-6727.

Hallam: Look for the black street-car. It doesn’t stop here any more. Quinn.

CARMEN'S Used Furniture Store Typewriters and Desks Moving and Light Hauling 1127 E. 55th MU 4-9003

The College

LAUNDERETTE

1449 East 57th St. MU 4-9236

To the tables down at Morie’s to the place where Irwin dwells (with our money). Teplltz.

Z.B.: Why you bother me? Please let me alone. I no like Roger now. Ramona.

Friday, Nov. 19

Play: "The Enchanted," by Jean Giradoux, University Theatre. 8:30 p.m., Reynolds club theatre. Admission $1.

Concert: Alexander Schneider (violin) and Artur Balsam (piano>. 8:30 p.m., Mandel hall.

Lecture: "Who drafted Adlai Stevenson?" by Walter Johnson, chairman, department of history. 4:30 p.m., Social Science 122. Part of Walgreen lecture series, ' "The Stevenson draft."

Hillel sobbath service and fireside, 7:45 and 8:30 p.m., 5715 Woodlawn. Speaker: George V. Bobrinskoy, chairman, department of linguistics, on "Religious symbols of the Russian Orthodox church."

Humboldt club meeting, 4 p.m., Wieboldt commons. Speaker: Miss Kasper, on her recent experiences in Germany. Refreshments.

Le Cercle Francois meeting, 4 p.m., Ida Noyes library. Speaker: Alphonse Roche, Northwestern university, on "Le midi bouge." Refreshments. Admission 25c for guests.

Saturday, Nov. 20

Square dance with professional caller, 8 p.m., 55th Street promontory Shelter house. Sponsor, students of University college. Everyone welcome.

Polish club open house, 8 p.m., Ida Noyes. Program includes Polish dance exhibition, singing group, end national voice contest singer. Admission 50c.

Ploy: "The Enchanted," University Theatre.

Sunday, Nov. 21

Seminar: "Religion and philosophy," by Bernard M. Loomer, professor of philosophy of religion. 1 :30 p.m., Judspn lounge.

Rockefeller chapel service, 1 1 a m. Sermon by John B. Thompson, dean of the chapel, on "Shibboleth."

ISL caucus, 7:30 p.m., Judson library.

SRP caucus, 7:45 p.m. Ida Noyes east lounge.

Young Socialist league meeting, 4 p.m., Ida Noyes. Discussion on "the nature of the third camp."

Channing club supper and meeting, 6:30 and 7:30 p.m., 5638 Woodlawn. Housecleaning party.

Circolo Italiano meeting, 3 p m., Room A, I nt house. Speaker: Enzo Pestelli, cultural attache to the Italian consul generals, on "Etruscan archaeology." Lecture will be in Italian, the discussion period in English.

Ploy: "The Enchanted," University Theatre.

Monday, Nov. 22

Film: "Pickwick Papers (English), 8 p m., Int house assembly hall. Admission 45c.

Maroon editorial and staff meeting, 3:30 p.m., Reynolds club 201. New staffers invited. All staff members must attend once every three weeks to be eligible to vote on editorials.

Inter-Varsity Christian fellowship meeting, 12:30 p.m., Ido Noyes. Group discussion. Bring your lunch.

Anarchist discussion group meeting, 6:45 p.m. 5638 Woodlawn.

Tuesday, Nov. 23

Mountaineering club meeting, 7:30 p m., Rosenwald 26. Discussion of ice and snow technique.

Wednesday, Nov. 24

English country dancing, 8 pm, Ida Noyes cloister club. Instructions for beginners. Wear rubber-soled shoes.

Pre-Med club meeting, 4;30 pm., Abbott 133. Election of officers and program planning for winter quarter.

Thursday, Nov. 25

Film: "Adventures of Martin Eden* (American), 7 and 9 pm., Int house east lounge. Admission 35c.

You may now Telephone your

Classified Ads

Call

Ml 3-0800, Ext 1000

Mondoy - Friday — 10:30-11:30

Monday - Tuesday — 11:30-12:30

Mondoy - Wednesday—3:30-5:30

Eye Examinations

Visual Training

Dr. Kurt Rosenbaum

t tptomefrist

1132 E. 55th Street HYde Park 3-8372

Students' Favorite

LAUNDROMAT

For the Past Six Years

1. Efficient Laundromat Service

2. Shirts - Flat Work All Laundry Services

3. Lowest Prices in

Hyde Park

Come In and See Our

Newly Remodeled Store

with the LATEST Equipment

UNIVERSITY

LAUNDROMAT

1376 E. 55th St. PL 2-9097

Playwrights Theatre Club

1205 N. Dearborn

FINAL WEEK!

Chekhov's dramatic comedy

THE SEA GULL opening next Wed. Kalidasa's romantic fantasy SHAKUNTALA Manpuri dances by Nina Guha

Tues, thru Sat. 8:30

Sundays at 7:30

Reservations at Student Government Tieket agency or call Whitehall 3-2272

PLAN YOUR CHRISTMAS SHOPPING leisurely from our wholesale catalogs Ail kinds of quality merchandise at 22% discount to students only.

MIRIAM'S SHOPPING SERVICE

New Location: two blocks north of Stineway's

1340 E. 35th St. IIV 3-4070

WHY NOT STUDY IN MEXICO?

Distinguished Faculty New Campus Mild Climate the Year-Round

MEXICO CITY COLLEGE

Winter Quarter: January 4 to March 16 Emphasis on Spanish, Lotin American Studies, Foreign Trade History, Creative Writing, Anthropology Grants B.A. and M.A. degrees — Approved for Veterans

Spring Quarter: March 22 to June 2

Summer Sessions: June 13 through August 26

Special Workshops and Intensive Courses:

June 13 through July 15

July 18 through August 19 For Information Write: Dean of Admissions Kilometer 16, Carretera Mexico-Toluca, Mexico 10, D. F.

Gifts • Gourmet's Corner • Stationery

APOTHECARY Gloss from Yesterday's drug stories ' f-pound canister £ .85

*^ 1 /x-pound size X I. I 0

3'/i-pound * Cun you top this?

Turkey and all the trimmings for a dollar (Special student rate) November 25. 1 p.m.

University Church of Disciples of Christ

(Opposite Bartlett Gym) Reservations — DO 3-8142

ty/te ^iwtim PHOTOGRAPHERS

MIDWAY 3-4433 1171 EAST 55th STREET

CAR WASH 98‘ Monday — Friday With 8 gallons Super TCP Gasoline JEWEL CONOCO Serrice Station and Perfect Car Wash

5601 South Cottage Grote ML' 4-0106

ITALIAN FIESTA PIZZERIA

Special Pizza !4 Sausage 1/4 Anchovy 14 Pepper !4 Mushroom

1427 E. 67th MU 4 Sh

FREE DELIVERY TO U. of C. STUDENTS On orders over $2

Quick Courteous Service

TABLE SERVICE 11 A.M. to 3 A.M

7 Days a Week DELIVERY SERVICE 5 P.M. to 3 A.M.

^' i styled authentically and built to last of very fine leathers.

four City Club dealer has a complete line to choose from, and a $ 8 ^ ® to •15’

FREE, luscious GALendar for your courtesy in dropping in to see

him or write Peters Shoe Co., Dept. CN 11, 1505 Washington

Ave. St. Louis 3. Mo.

® Chy Club

by Peters | distinctive sheet for men November 19, 1954

THE CHICAGO MAROON

Page 3

Two UC exchange students Newest Trustee wrote novel letters

to Frankfort chosen for ’55*’56

Jerome Carlin and James Camp were chosen yesterday as the 1955-56 Student Government exchange students to

when alum chairman,- doubled gifts

by Allen danger

Frankfurt. An SG appointed committee picked the successful scholarship winners from a group of eleven applicants.

Carlin is a Ph D candidate in Sociology and Camp is a student in the English department.

The scholarships are administered by the Student Government. Each year there is a reciprocal exchange of two students between Frankfort and UC. The German students are granted free tuition at UC. Various student organizations have cooperated in the p^t in providing room and board mr

 

the exchangees.

The selection board consisted of William E. Scott, registrar and assistant dean of students; Viola Manderfeld, chairman of the college German staff, and Christian W. Mackauer, associate professor of history. Student board members included Molly Felker Lunsford; George Stone, Interfraternity-cbuncil president; Clive Gray, SG member and former exchange student at Frankfort, and Ruth and Wolf Hyderbrand, Frankfort exchange students at UC.

Among alumni, Earle Ludgin, UC’s newest trustee, is known primarily as “the man who wrote those letters.” '

“Those letters” are solicitations for alumni contributions, which were sent to alumni during Ludgin’s term as chairman of the board of the Alumni foundation. They were apparently instrumental in raising an alumni gift of over $400,000, almost double the previous high.

Some of the letters were sentimental, as in the instructions on “how to compute your

THEY PASSED THIS WAY...

REFLECTIONS OF THE AMERICAN PAST IN DOCUMENT AND HISTORY

BEYOND THE HUNDREDTH MERIDIAN, by Stegner.. .$6.00 The story of John Wesley Powell, father of the Geological Survey, founder of the Bureau of American Ethnology, who was the first man to explore the canyons of the Colorado River.

PROFILE OF AMERICA, by Davie $8 50

An autobiography of the U. S A With the aid of authentic letters, speeches, diaries and pictures, the reader journeys through history with Americans who have made it.

GREAT RIVER, by 00

The Rio Grande in American History. Carl Carmer says, "One of the major masterpieces of American historical writing."

PICTORIAL HISTORY OF THE WILD WEST, by Horan & Sann. $5 95 A true account of the bad men, desperadoes, rustlers and outlaws of the Old West—and the men who fought them to establish law and order.

AT

University of Chicago

Bookstore

5802 Ellis Avenue contribution” (“If you met your wife or husband at the University add 100 per cent”). But much more characteristic were their anecdotes and wry comments. (“My problem is that in the last few years during which I have been writing you, I haven’t drawn a single response. My score is zero.”)

As the campaign drew to a close last spring. Ludgin sent a letter which promised that “for as little as one dollar contributed to the Alumni fund, I’ll hold my peace for a full year If. on the other hand, my letters have bored you $5, $10. or $25 worth, let your conscience be your guide That sound you hear is of a man tapping out. another letter on his typewriter. What is it worth to you to stay his hand?”

Alumni response was instant

and overwhelmingly pleased, according to Howard Mort, UC alumni secretary. Not only did contributions rise, but alumni even wrote that though they had sent in their contributions, they wanted to get the rest of the letters. Mort, of course, obliged. Many alumni waited until the last moment to send their contributions because they wanted to be sure they would get all of Ludgin’s letters.

But most important. Mort said, was a new spirit among the alumni.

Ludgin. president of the advertising firm of Earle Ludgin and Company, does not fit the stereotype of the bustling advertising executive. On first impression he is much more the scholarly ascetic. He speaks softly, with accents clipped and cultured. He

What Will the New Congress Mean?

• for JOBS? ... for FOREIGN POLICY? ... for PEACE IF YOU'RE STAYING UP WITH

SICK FRIENDS

We carry a complete line of wines, liquors and imports

55th Er University Ml 3-0524

once commented that were he to apply to his company for a job, he doubted he would hire himself.

He has extensive interests in the arts, and is trustee of the Art Institute, the Ravinia Festival association. the American Federation of Arts, and the Poetry association, a member of the Orchestral association, and past president of the Society of Contemporary American art.

Ludgin, a graduate of the class of 1920, was appointed to the board of trustees November 11,

Mountaineers plan 'techniques' lecture

An illustrated program with lectures on climbing in the Selkirk range of Canada, map reading, and snow and ice techniques will be presented by the UC Mountaineering club in Rosenwald 26 at 8 p.m. Tuesday. Willie Weeks and Bob Schluter, members of the club from the physical sciences division, will give the talks.

With several weekend climbing? outings to the rock bluffs at Devil’s Lake state park, Wisconsin, the group continues to participate in their favorite sport in spite of their flat-land location. Officers of the club awe Ron Hedi, Dave Williams, and Nancy Barth.

BOTTLEO UNDER AUTHORITY Of THE COCA COLA COMPANY BY

The Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Chicago, Inc. .

’"’Coke** Is a registered trade-mark. © 1954, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY

Hoar

or WAR?

. carey Mc Williams

EDITOR, THE NATION

Attention TKE’s

All members of Tau Kappa Epsilon fraternity on the campus are requested to get in touch with George Stone at 5548 Kenwood, HY 39231. A national representative of TKE will be on the campus later this month and would like to get in touch with you.

Chairman of the Meeting: PROFESSOR ROBERT J. HAVIGHURST

November 22, 1954 8:15 P.M. 1174 East 57th St. Donation 50c

Illinois Committee for Peaceful Alternatives, South Shore, Hyde Park and North Side Committees

no 7 907i hyde park theatre

student rate 50c

Starting today — Friday, November

Ralph Richardson and Celia

The Holly and the Ivy

Johnson

"A film that stands

19

lake park at 53 rd

squarely in the

center of the great tradition of British pictures."—New York Post

A literate love story flavored with delightful characterizations, priceless humor, and tender genuine drama. A tour de force of acting seldom have such a set of performances been brought together in one film.

and

Ralph Richardson and Michele Morgan

in Carol Reed's Fallen Idol

Based on a short story by GRAHAM GREENE

Winner of two English Oscars, both as the best film of the year and the best directed film of the year. A spine-tingling, deeply moving suspense drama i

I

V

I!

3

3

35c

LAST WEEK

35c

TERRY’S PIZZA

finest pizzas made

This coupon is worth 35c on all pizzas

SMALL . MEDIUM

1.00

1.45

LARGE

GIANT

1.95

2.95

We also carry a full

line of Italian foods

>

Ml 3-4045

We Deliver 1518 E. 63 St,

35c

35c W)I

hmm

Louise Barker |

photographer

“uiio captures your personality "

as well as |

your person” I

1457 E. 57th St. I BU 8-0876

the happiest music alive

BIMI

Featuring the

DIXIE DUKES

Every Friday & Saturday night

Open till 4 & 5 A.M.

Free Parking across the street

AVALON COCKTAIL LOUNGE (FORMERLY

THE ST. MORITZ)

1629 E. 79 St.

RE 4-8729 November 19, 1954

Starting a second housing file is not the way to lick discrimination

Since the re-establishment of a Student Government Hon-discriminatory housing file is currently being considered, it would be well to review the history of this perennial campus controversy.

The administration maintains a housing file in the registrar’s office which accepts listings from all landlords regardless of racial policy. In April 1952 SG passed a bill providing that the University inform prospective listers that it does not accept discriminatory listings, and that a student team approved by the dean investigate claims of discrimination among listers. This bill was vetoed by Dean Strozier.

SG then passed a “compromise” bill establishing a second housing file operated by students, which was to be reviewed by the dean after six months, and if he was satisfied that the SG file was “adequate” the administration would discontinue its own file. This file was established in September 1952 and abolished the same November by a new SG. Now SG plans to revive this file.

So much for history. Now, what exactly is the purpose of eliminating discrimination in a campus housing file? There are two: first, it would make it easier for minority“adequate,” simply by not listing in it. In a competition between an administration discriminatory file and a SG non-discriminatory one, the former must win. And if it does, how long will it be before the students are again in a position to do anything about the housing file situation?

Remember, the administration holds the ace—it will be the judge of the adequacy of the SG file. There is no telling how long it might be (if ever) before it is satisfied and discontinues its own file. And this does not meet the problem of NOW.

If SG sets up a competing file now, it would be a monument to the fact that we have failed, a formal acknowledgement of the administration discriminatory file’s right to exist.

It has been a long time since Strozier vetoed the original bill to eliminate discrimination in its file, and the reasons given then appeared rather feeble. It would be very wrong for SG to set up a new file now, especially before it had again made every possible effort to get the administration to clean up its own house.

Polling at the booths: Note the privacy accorded to prospective voters. N^te the meditative atmosphere.

SG should fix its electoral roof

group students to find a place to live. Second, it would encourage landlords who cater to students to make a policy of accepting tenants regardless of race.

How can this latter be done? Clearly, by making it economically unfeasible for landlords to discriminate. If the average landlord can get tenants just as easily by discriminating as not, he will discriminate. If he has difficulty finding tenants because he cannot list on campus, he is likely to seriously reconsider his policy.

It should be clear, then, that, SG file or no, if discriminatory landords have a file on campus in which to list, we have failed in our purpose. Moreover, they are likely to insure that the SG file does not become

Once there was a man who had a leak in his roof. When it was raining it was too wet to climb a ladder and fix the leak, and when it was dry, there was no need to 

Once there was an SG which had faults in its election law. When there was an election, things were too touchy to tamper with the law. When the election was over, everyone forgot about the faults.

The faults we mean are the rules pertaining to electioneering at the polls. The present law allows literature, candidates, and electioneering up to ten feet from the polls. The advantages of this for the parties are great. A winning smile, a pretty girl, a last minute sales talk win votes, and votes win elections. Not that the

losing party does not electioneer also; it just does not prove as effective. ^

Perhaps many people would not bother to vote at all if they did not receive this last minute urging to evercise their franchise perhaps others would vote who do not do so now because they prefer a secret ballot.

The greater good of the University Student Government would be served, however, if voters concentrated on the issues and the records, and not on the smiles, as they cast their ballots. Voters need a private place at which to mark ballots, with no candidates or party workers watching.

Student Government should take advantage of the dry spell to examine the leak and fix it.

Issued once weekly by the publisher. The Chicago Maroon, at the publication office, 5706 South University Avenue, Chicago 37, Illinois. Telephones: Editorial Office, Midway 3-0800, Ext. 1010; Business and Advertising Offices, Midway 3-08 00, Ext. 1009. Distributed free of charge, and subscriptions by moil, $3 per year. Business Office hours: 1 to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday.

Who are

im MMMM

ALLEN R. JANGER RICHARD E. WARD. . WILLIAM BRANDON editor-in-chief . managing editor business manager

INDUSTRY'S

Executive news editor News editors Feature Editor Sports editor Burbach

Diana Epstein, Bob Quinn, David Schlessinger Friedmann Pinney

WANTED: Student who is familiar with Hi-Fidelity for part time soles work. LUND CO. 5236 Blackstone Ave.

If interested, come in — Do not coll

TOP

YOUNG

SCIENTISTS ?

SALE HI-FI TRADE-INS

All of the following are demos, and trade ins with 90 day exchange privilege on any merchandise new or used, one of each only.

New Our Price Browning R. J. 42 Tuner (Demo) $129.50

If the above is purchased the cabinet charge is . . 14.00 .09

G. E. preamp 8.75 4.99

Clarkston 16" arm 22.05 17.50

G. E. R. P. X. 041 5.85 3.00

Livingston arm (demo) 18.75 12.50

Pilotuner A. F. 723 79.95 54.50

Pilotuner Preamp 912 49.95 3 0.00

Garrard R. C. 80 with base 54.50 42.50

Weathers Cartridge, Osc. Power Supply 52.00 18.95

Pickering D. 140 S Cartridge 36.00 18.00

Ansley (self contained table model A.M.F.M. .. 109.50 59.50

Altec Lansing 43 3, 3 3 3, amp. and preamp 198.00 144.50

Jenson 4000 C. P. crossover 8.20 6.50

Altec Lansing 606 Corner cabinet Mahogany 122.00 79.50

Altec Lansing 602A 114.00 89.50

Brand new Ferranti Set (never used)

Arm, Trons, L. P. 76.95 59.50

21" Custom remote Control Television 399.50 ??? ??

We have the true remote control phono to match the above T.V. High Fidelity.

Ten men between the ages of 26 and 40 were featured in a recent national magazine article which presented a portrait of the young scientist in America today. These particular men are a sample of the most brilliant young scientific minds in industry.

It’s interesting to note that three of the ten are with Bell Telephone Laboratories, three with General Electric and one each with four other companies.

The variety of opportunity in research and other phases of telephone work has always attracted an unusually high percentage ol the nation’s best young men.

Consult your Placement Officer about opportunities with Bell Laboratories also with the Bell Telephone Companies, Western Electric and Sandia Corporation. Your Placement Officer will be glad to give you details.

Your present T.V. is worth at least $100.00 in trade on the above T.V. and phonograph.

We accept trades on the above

Custom Audio and Component Cabinets

Cash or Budget

Come in and ask for Bogen's Free Book; "Understanding Hi-Fi".

LUND COMPANY

5236 Blackstone Ave. MU 4-5300

Open Thursday and Sunday eves, till 8 p.m.

THREE OF THE TEN ARE AT BEU TELEPHONE LABORATORIESMathematician Claude Shannon won fame tor his Communication Theory

Physical Chemist William Baker introduced new concepts that have improved synthetic rubber and fibers

hysicist Herring is known for his understandii of the quantum mechanics of the solid sta*

BELL

TELEPHONE SYSTEM

 ^ovewiber 19, 1954

THE CHICAGO MAROON

Page 5

Augustine inspires talk

In commemoration of the 1500th anniversary of the birth of St. Augustine. John J. O'Meara, professor of Latin at University College, Dublin, will give two free public lectures on the saintphilosopher Tuesday.

Under the auspices of the hujnanities division, O’Meara will speak on “The Confessions of St.

Augustine” at 4 p.m. in Social Sciences 122. At 8 p.m. he will discuss "St. Augustine and the transmission of Greco-Roman thought” at University College, 19 South La Salle.

A prominent classical scholar, O’Meara is editor of the works of St. Augustine for the Loeb classical library.

Forum to debate Red China issue

Student Forum, which took third place honors at the recent Purdue Invitational Debate tournament, will enter a similar tournament at Bradley University this

weekend.

Debating side of the the United diplomatic

on the affirmative topic, "Resolved that States should extend recognition to the

MAROON mystery photo

What have VICEROYS got that other

Communist government of China,” will be Richard Johnson and Joe Engel. The negative team will be Holly O’Connor and Paul Weiss.

Johnson and Weiss, though freshmen, are both undefeated in intercollegiate novice competition, and Miss O’Connor, a transfer student, was formerly a varsity debater at the University of Utah.

filter tip cigarettes haven't got?

THE ANSWER IS

20,000 FILTERS

IN EVERY VICEROY TIP

Inside every Viceroy tip is a vast network of 20,000 individual filters to filter your smoke over and over again. You get only the full, rich taste of Viceroy’s choice tobaccos

and Viceroys draw so freely.

Yes, you get Viceroy’s remarkable new tip with 20,000 individual filters plus king-size length for only a penny or two more than cigarettes without filters.

WORLD’S FILTER

LARGEST-SELLING

TIP

CIGARETTE

New

King-Size

Filter Tip

Only • Penny or Two More than Cigarettes Without Filter*

yi CEROY^Yi

Gordon’s Sport Shop

Tennis Balls, $6.00 a dozen Badminton ond Squash 5757 Cottage Grove

Peter R. Mc Keon, a student in the college, identified last week’s mystery photo by 8:30 a.m. last Friday, because, as he stated: "My father (Richard P. Mc Keon, distinguished service professor of classical languages, literature, and philosophy) has had his office in that building for a number of years.”

The correct answer was the the gargoyle on the southeast end of the Wieboldt-Classics archway.

The first UC student to reach the Maroon office with the correct identification of this week’s mystery photo will receive a carton of Philip Morris cigarettes, donated by the Philip Morris company.

ntries must state what the object is and where it is located, and should include the name, address and telephone number of the entrant. All entries must be brought to the Maroon office.

INTERNATIONAL HOUSE MOVIES

Monday show—Assembly Hall—8:00 P.M.

Thursday shows—East Lounge—7:00 ond 9:00 P.M.

Nov. 22—PICKWICK PAPERS (English)—Admission 45c Nov. 25—ADVENTURES OF MARTIN EDEN (American)—Adm. 35c

PRO-FORMA

Forms designed to meet your needs

Your designs executed in your choice of colors ond papers

Questionnaires designed ond tabulated

ar the HYDE PARK LETTER SHOP

5646 S. Harper (37)

LISTEN TO ••SPORTS TODAY” WITH BILL STERN ABC RADIO NETWORK MONDAY THRU FRIDAY

354-11

HY 3-5313

Close Saturdays to cut curriculum lab's expenses

The curriculum laboratory, situated in Judd hall and connected with the library there, has discontinued Saturday hours in order to cut expenses.

Anyone who wishes to use laboratry material on Saturday may ask for it in the laboratory during the week and pick it up on Saturday in the library proper. The laboratory will be open on week days from 9 a.m. to 5 p.rn.

The curriculum laboratory maintains collections of text books, course-listings of schools throughout the nation, and 4,000 tests, mostly for the use of instructors and graduate students.

When you know your beer

...it’s bound to be Bud

In pleasant moments of leisure, beer belongs. And the most popular beer of them all is Budweiser ... the beer brewed by the costliest process on Earth. Every sip of golden Budweiser tellsyou why it is preferred everywhere.

Ehjoy

Budweiser

leads All Beers In Sales Today ...and Through The Years!

ANHEUSER-BUSCH, INC. ST. LOUIS . NEWARK • LOS ANGELES November 19, 1954

Present organ recital

Choral and organ compositions of Johann Nepomuk David, contemporary German composer, will be presented in an organ recital at 8:30 p.m. Tuesday in Rockefeller chapel.

Heinrich Fleischer, chapel organist, will present the program, assisted by the UC choir under the direction of Richard Vikstrom, director of chapel music.

“Shakuntala,” romantic fantasy, to open at Playwrights theatre

Playwrights theatre club’s next production, Shakuntala, will open next Wednesday. Shakuntala is a romantic fantasy by India’s renowned poet and playwright, Kalidasa.

The fantasy, written in the first century, tells the story of the king of India and his brief romance with a girl of the forest (Shakuntala), and their son who reunites them. A

comic sub-plot concerns a licentious fakir and his dealings with a gullible merchant and his wife.

Indian music, song and dance are featured in the person of Nina Guha who will perform authentic Manipuri dances. Miss Guha, a student at UC, is appearing through the cooperation of the India Association. She has given many solo performances in her native country as well as in New York and Washington, D. C.

Adapted and directed by Rolf Forsberg, Shakuntala is scheduled for a three week run. Performances are at 8:30 Tuesday-Saturday and 7:30 Sunday.

Playwrights is inaugurating a weekly series beginning this week at 8:30 p.m. “Monday at Playwrights” with Studs Terkel. Chet Robie. Big Bill Broonzy, and Lawrence Lane in a program of jazz and folk music, “I Come for to Sing.” Duke Ellington described the show as “one of the most exciting shows I’ve ever seen.”

Plan Christmas party

Early plans are underway for the ninth annual Christmas party for the underprivileged children of the University of Chicago settlement. The party, scheduled for December 11, will again be held at the Phi Gamma Delta fraternity house, through the joint sponsorship of the Fijis, Quads, and Mortarboards.

Schneider, Balsam in sonata program at Mandel hall tonight

Alexander Schneider, violinist, will present the season’s third UC concert at 8:30 p.m. tonight in Mandell hall.

Arthur Balsam will perform with Schneider on the piano in a sonata recital program. The program includes Schumann. “Sonata in D Minor”; Herbert Fromm, “Sonata”; Ben Weber. “Sonata,” and Schubert, “Rondo.”

Noted both for his solo recitals and for his appearances with string quartets, Schneider plays every summer with the Prades festival of Pablo Casals in Perpignan, France, and has also been active with the Dumbarton Oaks festival in the United States.

Features Calendar

FRIDAY: Alexander Schneider, violinist, will present the third Un!, versify concert in Mandel Hall at 8:30 p.m.

Anita Garibaldi, an Italian film about the unification of Italy, will open at the Cinema Annex.

The Holly and the Ivy, and Fallen Idol, two British films, will open at the Hyde Park theatre.

University theatre will give a performance of The Enchanted.

Other performances will be given November 20. 21, 26, 27, 28.

SATURDAY: The David Bradley production of Julius Caesar will be shown in Soc Sci 122 at 8 p.m.

MONDAY: “I Come for to Sing” will inaugurate the “Monday at Playwrights” series at Playwrights Theatre.

TUESDAY: An organ recital under the direction of Richard Vikstroni will be presented at Rockefeller chapel at 8:30 p.m.

WEDNESDAY: Shakuntula will open at Playwrights theatre.

I The year’s funniest film!

— Life Magazine

Midwest Premiere

f JACQUES TATI, comic virtuoso, skips with a Chap linesque manner through

DUtt OM Af DIVISION!

oo

Students presenting their ID cards at box office will be admitted for 50c any week night, Saturdays and Sundays until 5 p.m.

'“Disc

1369 E. 57th St.

Record

of the week

Boris Godunoff Excerpts

Alexander Kipnis LBC-1082

Price $2.98

COMO

PIZZERIA

1520 E. 55th St.

• Bar-be-cue chicken

• Bar-be-cue ribs

Delivery Anywhere

FA 4-5525

HOME PLASTICS Draperies - Curtains - Houseware 10% Student Discount

1303 E. 55th Street NO 7-5006

Order corsages from your campus florist

*Mitzie’s Flower Shop

at two convenient stores

1301 E.

MI 3-4020

JO% and 20°o student discount

TEACHERS — MATURE STUDENTS!

*; Do You Need Money? J*

o We need help and are willing to pay. Guaranteed salary <> o plus very high commissipn, plus bonuses equals a good o ° part-time or full-time job. Choose own evenings and o <* weekend hours. A salesman's dream You need a car and a willingness to learn

O Call HU 6-0583

Mr. Golden for appointment o

If you're "off-color"... don’t come to us!

...because we have Arrow sports shirts for the man who wants color galore. Stop in and let us lay out a sample to shame a Picasso. Get color. Get comfort. Get style. Get Arrow. And, get oh down here right now! Smart Arrow plaid sport shirts are priced at >3.95 up.

CHICAGO - EVANSTON - OAK PARK - GARY JOLIET - ALTON - EVERGREEN

JAZZ RECORDS! 50% OFF!

Louis Armstrong Dizzy Gillespie

Sarah Vaughan Duke Ellington

Thousands of Jazz Records (cash or trade for your old records’

SEYMOUR’S JAZZ RECORD MART

439 S Wabash WEb Mer 9-9808

NEW AND DIFFERENT

STAG OR DRAG

GIRLS FREE

Dancing and Entertainment Tonight

Music by Eddie Fox The Little Foxes and Featured Vocalist

MALE Admission $1.00 plus tax

THE ELMS HOTEL

East* 53rd Street and Cornell Avenue

Don’t be a somber hombre

“Light-up" 1 in an

ARROW Sport Shirt!

The best way we know for a bright change-of-pace is a colorful Arrow sport shirt. They’re brilliant in solid colors, keen in plaids; certain to drive your study cares away.

Arrow sport shirts give any wardrobe a shot in the arm for color and style. They’re outstanding in comfort and fit too what’s more, these shirts can take a beating like nothing in the laundry. A man can ask no more of a sport shirt. But Arrow gives you more. Priced from $3.95.

A/t/t OWCASUAL WEAR

SHIRTS • TIES • UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS THE CHICAGO MAROON

Deliver lectures on Indian art

•Great traditions in Indian sculpture and painting” will be discussed in a series of three lectures by Stella Kramisch, visiting professor of Indian art from the University of Pennsylvania.

The first lecture will be held Monday, at 4:30 p.m. in Social Science 122. The second and third lectures will be held Wednesday and Friday at the same time and place.

The UC departments of anthropology and art are sponsoring the series.

MODEL CAMERA SHOP 5th Anniversary

Register for $555.00 in Free Prizes MODEL TRAINS - PLANES

PHOTO SUPPLIES NSA Discounts

1329 E. 55th St. HY 3-9259 UNIVERSITY FOODS 1129 E. 55th

Open daily & Sundays: fl A.M. till fk'.i O P.M, NSA discount on $3.00 purchases

NICKY’S

Finds “Enchanted” polished; well staged

The dress rehearsal of University Theatre’s The Enchanted last Wednesday night very smooth indeed. The Giradoux play, presented in the round, gave ample evidence

was that

Phillips, the new director, not only knows what he is doing but has complete control over the cast.

This control was demonstrated not only in the actors’ mastery of their lines and their ability to maintain a steady pace throughout the performance, but in the groupings which were

artfully contrived to give the appearance of a gradually changing tableau, effective from any part of the theatre. This measure of success is usually all any college theatre ever hopes to attain.

The Enchanted, however, goes beyond this, and the opportunities which Phillips gave his cast to demonstrate brilliance were frequently capitalized on. A few scenes come to mind at once: the most touching is one in which Omar Shapli, as the inspector, awkwardly confesses his love for Isabelle, played by Neva Fowler; Jim Sherwood, as the doctor, in the effectively understated scene where he describes his role in life as that of helping others make the transition from one mood to another; and most memorable of all, Haym Bernsen as the ghost, whose marvellous diction and uncanny feeling for his role caused him to dominate the cast whenever he appeared.

The real sparkplug of the show, however, was George Wellworth as the inspector, who was not only exceedingly funny, but acted as the pace setter and coordinating element in the group scenes where chaos could easily have reigned, and to some extent did.

Miss Fowler was not strong enough to seize the initiative from any of these performers, which is just as well, since the role might have been destroyed had she done so. Her chief contribution to the play was similar to Wellworth’s, but less obvious, in that she provided the necessary credibility to the transition between the scenes of rowdy comedy and the ethereal dialogues with the ghost.

One of the directorial toutties most to Phi Hip’s credit was the little girls whose noise, bumptiousness, and all around girlishness, gave the fullness of life to the scenes in which they appeared.

One of the chief differences between mediocrity and excellence in this production was the technical proficiency of the crew. The lighting of the show was absolutely profesisonal, in the sense that not only were brilliant effects achieved, but they were not achieved too often. The lighting problem was particularly difficult since the show is not played upon the stage and the fixtures found there are useless.

Another outstanding feature of the show was the music from the score of Francois Poulenc, written particularly for the play. The person responsible for playing this nr' cues than most of the actors and never once hesitated to meet them.

photo by University theatre

Appearing in “The Enchanted” are George We Hworth, as the inspector, and Fredrich Hirsch, as the mayor.

The music itself was most enjoyable, embodying a rather new concept of using the leitmotif to usher in the characters and to emphasize the action at the height of a scene, a technique successfully developed by films but rarely seen on the stage. The costumes are innocuous.

A word of advice to those who plan to see the show, and that is simply to arrive early enough to get a seat on the stage, since from here the lighting tricks are most effective.

You may now

Telephone your Classified Ads Call

PIZZERIA & RESTAURANT

1235 E. 55th Street NO 7-9063

 

Free delivery to V. of C. students On any order

Quick Courteous Service — 7 Days a Week

Table Service Delivery Service

11 A.M. to 2 A.M. 5 P.M. to 2 A.M.

Open till 3 A.M. on Friday and Saturday

SPAGHETTI NIGHT EVERY THURSDAY $.65 AN ORDER ALL YOU CAN EAT FOR $1.25 Cooked to order

ALEXANDER’S RESTAURANT

1137 East 63rd St.

MU 4-5735

ACASA Book Store

CHRISTMAS CARDS CONTEMPORARY CONVENTIONAL

IMPORTED FOREIGN LANGUAGE

Featuring one of the largest and most distinctive collections of 5c cards in the city

HY 3-9651 1117 E. 55th Street

Ml 3-0800, Ext. IOOO

Monday - Friday — 10:30-11:30

Monday - Tuesday— I 1:30-1 2:30

Monday - Wednesday—3:30-5:30

Be Happy Qo...

Jimmy’s

1172 E. 55th

NOW! A filter cigarette real smokers can enjoy!

FINER FLAVOR!

KING SIZE, TOO!

Winston tastes good—

like a cigarette should!

 Winston brings flavor back to filter smoking —full, rich, tobacco flavor! No wonder college smokers are flocking to Winston—on campuses across the country! Along with real flavor— the kind you’ve been missing in filter smokes __Winston brings you a finer filter. This exclusive Winston filter is unique, different, truly superior! It works so effectively, yet doesn’t “thin” the taste or flatten the flavor. Winstons are king-size, too, for extra filtering action— and easy-drawing for extra good taste. Try a pack of Winstons! Page 8

THE CHICAGO MAROON

November 19, 195^

Sports Calendar

Today: Cross country, Track club 4-mile open, 1 1 a.m., Washington park.

Monday: Cross country, NCAA 4-mile run, 2 p.m., East Lansing, Michigan.

Thursday: Cross country, CYO 5000 meter run, - 11 a.m., Waveland golf course.

Friday: JV basketball, St. Michael, 3 p.m., Bartlett gym.

Thinclads take two more

by Paul Baptist

The lean and hungry UC harriers methodically blasted Washington University of St Louis last Saturday and Bradley on Wednesday by identical scores of 15-48 to finish up the varsity dual-meet season with a record of nine wins and one loss, five of these wins being scored via the shut-out route. “ —'

Booters beat Morton JC

Place 3rd in conference

Scoring twice in the second quarter and once in the final frame, UC booters beat Morton Junior College at Cicero Saturday, 3-1.

Left-inside John Godfrey tallied first with a left foot shot that crossed the goal from the left and went in on the right, drawing the goalie out of position. Center-forward Roojan Minasaganian scored a few minutes later on a shot from the left side of the goal into the left corner of the goal that further befuddled the Morton goalkeeper.

Chicago scored again before Morton put through their goal. Godfrey broke past the centerforward and kicked straight in from about twenty yards. Morton’s goal came when a drowsy Gerry Czamanske, lulled by confidence in his own defense, awoke

too late to have a chance at a well kicked goal. Coach Hermanson

sent Dick Hansen in at then, to allow Czamanske on the sideline.

The win gave Chicago a

goalie a rest

tie for

third in Midwest conference play. Final team standings:

Earlham Indiana CHICAGO Wheaton Purdue Morton JC

won 4

3

3

3

1 0

lost

1

1 tie 1

2

2

4

5

Over the season Chicago

beat

Indiana, Purdue, and Morton JC, while losing to Earlham and Wheaton.

Greenlee hurt

Sam Greenlee, one of the outstanding runners of the UC cross country squad, was seriously injured in an auto accident near Kankakee, Sunday. Doctors in Veterans hospital, 303 Huron street, list his condition as critical.

Greenlee entered UC this fall after spending his undergraduate days at Wisconsin. He achieved distinction as a halfmiler there, but was also successful at longer distances at Wisconsin and, this fall, at UC.

Walt Deike, without a doubt one of the finest distance men in the country, won both races handily,, setting new varsity records for three and four miles in the same race, 15:21 and 20:33, respectively, and breaking in a brand-new Bradley course with a brilliant 13:40 which should stand as a record for quite a while.

The snobby thinclads continued their policy of non-fraternization so effectively that Walt Deike, Paul Baptist. Chuck Rhyne, Art Omohundro, and Lowell Hawkinson were spared the trying sight of opposing school runners finishing ahead of them in either race, while Jim Flynn and Sam Greenlee were relieved in this manner in one race.

Tomorrow at 11 a.m. in Washington park the finest aggregation of distance runners in the Middle West, headed (by Wait Deike, "Cookie” Moriya, Lowell Zellers, Hal Higdon. L a w 10 n Lamb, and Phil Coleman, will compete in an open five-mile race sponsored by the UC Track Ciub.

Monday. Nov. 22, Baptist, Fishman, Lynn, Omohundro, and Smothers will travel up to East Lansing, Michigan, to run in the NCAA crosscountry championship meet on the Michigan State course.

Christmas skiers journey to Colorado

A Christmas ski trip to Arapahoe Basin, Colorado, in the mountains 70 miles west of Denver, is being sponsored by the Outing club.

The trip lasts from December 17 to January3, including 13 full days of skiing. Cost is $95, which includes transportation by chartered bus, food, lodging, and insurance.

There will be instruction for those who are not proficient in the art of skiing, as well as for those who have never been on skis before. Equipment may be rented there.

Further information may be obtained by calling Spense Wright, MI 3-0800, extension 1072, between 6 and 10 p.m. any night but Wednesday.

fra M

In the whole wide worldno cigarette satisfies like a Chesterfield!

HOWARD STOECKER-PAN AMERICAN OVERSEAS CAPTAIN and ELLEN FORSETH, STEWARDESS

'5 E

They satisfy millions because only Chesterfield has the right combination of the world’s best tobaccos. They’re highest in quality, low in nicotine.

You smoke with the greatest possible pleasure when your cigarette is Chesterfield. It’s the largestselling cigarette in America’s colleges!

(Ki NG-S GARE'

UCTT I MYt RS TO

CHESTERFIELD Buyout

© U*m A Mrau Tomcco Cw

Beat* the stuffing out of other transportation! Storms can’t cancel your trip. Traffic jams can’t make you miss vacation dates, or get you back to the campus late. And it’s more fun traveling by train with your crowd, enjoying swell dining car meals en route.

Save 25% or More

And this is gravy! Travel home and back with two or more friends on Group Coach Tickets. On most trips of 100 miles or more, you each save 25% of usual round-trip rate. Still better, gather 25 or more to travel long-distance together on the same homeward train. Then return singly or together, and each save 28% of the regular coach round-trip fare.

Get the Full Facts from Your Railroad Ticket Agent Well in Advance

Eastern Railroads