

Kermit Eby talks on war trends cites unemployment, bureacracy by Frans Snyder

"The essential act of war is destruction, not necessarily of human lives, but of the products of human labor.” This quotation from George Orwell’s “1984” opened Kermit Eby’s talk on “Vested Interests in Defense” last Wednesday evening.

"That’s 1984,” said Eby, professor of social science, “and from it arises the greatest problem for the Judeo-Christian ethic today — how to produce maximum employment and absorb production surpluses short of war. All other questions are relegated to insignificance; no government, socialist, 

University of Chicago, February 19, 1954

of the

demic freedom week was set up yesterday. The committee is being

encourin acamission, Illinois region, NSA.

A steering committee to age student participation

munist or capitalist, has been able to do it.”

Notes growing unemployment

In a short review of the prosperous economy after 1939, when "in spite of all the efforts of the New Deal there were still nine million unemployed,” he established the vital correlation between farm prices, corporation profits, and employment and the stimulation of two wars.

Increased defense expenditures and foreign aid have held up prosperity, Eby said, but today “there are three million unemployed by the latest figures and labor papers are bordered in black.” The four million unemployed in 1950 frightened labor, too, he continued, but that was before the Korean War. Sees no plot

What's next? He didn't want to

Clapp defends TVA plan

by Joanna Herlihy

“Controversy over the TVA springs from the novelty of the undertaking and the breadth of its subject matter,” according to Gordon Clapp, UC alumnus and, since 1946, chairman of the Tennessee Valley Authority board of directors. Clapp opened his six-lecture Walgreen Foundation series at 8 p.m. Monday in Judd 126 by presenting a view of the TVA as an integrated approach to resource development.

In the development of this river basin project affecting seven states, the TVA had to coordinate numerous governmental agencies and private interests. While doing this, it developed administrative techniques which have been emulated throughout the world, said Clapp. However, the project has been the target of adverse criticism from many quarters since its inception 21 years ago.

TVA pragmatic solution to need

Clapp defended the TVA from attacks which hold the project to be an “adventure in socialism” by stressing the pragmatic quality of its aims and methods, and pointing to the great expansion of industry in this region, previously shunned by private capital. He emphasized that the TVA was not created with commitments to an abstract system of doctrine, but Was a response to practical needs of a large depressed area of the country.

During the early 1930s, Clapp declared, the low productivity of the Tennessee Valley area was

Robert Sbarge (Cap & Gown)

Gordon R. Clapp, chairman of the TVA board of directors, being introduced by Herman C. Pritchitt, chairman of the political science department of the social science division, at his lecture last Monday.

give the implication of cause and effect, he said. “There’s no insidious plot in Wall Street”; but, as he explained it, there is evidence that industry—and labor and agriculture. as well, are “accommodating to the situation it’s easier to follow the trend.”

“There is a great temptation to intensify crisis,” Eby said. He explained that this was augmented by a tightening military bureaucracy which treats the public like children. The bureaucracy assumes the planning of military stockpiling, allocation, civil defense and the right to question their decisions is increasingly denied on the grounds that the public don’t know all the facts.” The one fact they ought to know,

entirely disproportionate to the potential of its natural resources. These resources had to be rehabilitated, however, through such measures as flood control by dam building and reforestation. Both this rehabilitation and the muchneeded stimulation of the area’s economy could best be met by an integrated program, it was felt. Only an organization of the magnitude of TVA could coordinate so vast a program.

No favoritism involved

In response to the criticism that the TVA is developing one favored region at the national expense, Clapp said, “Federal funds are invested in this region ... ultimately for the national benefit." One third of the hydro-electric power produced by the river system serves the Atomic Energy Commission’s projects in the area. In addition, the control of the waters of the Tennessee River system relieves flood condition in the

he continued, is that in an atomic war there is a 50 per cent casualty rate. “The military,” he added, “is convinced that the other 50 per cent will successfully win the war for us.”

Tension increasing

Eby stressed the importance of maintaining freedom to speak up against this accumulation of tension. He saw it become an uncontrollable impetus in Japan and Germany before the last war, he said. “Speaking for peace must not become subversive,” he concluded. “We must follow the lead of the President in organizing what good will there is. As long as they keep talking, they won’t be shooting.”

Eby’s talk was the second in a see “Eby," page 11

whole lower Mississippi Valley.

The general economic advancement of the region, reflected in the increased proportion of the national tax burden now borne by it, contributes to a stronger national economy as a whole. “If that is favoritism let us recognize it as favoritism for the strength and well-being of the American people,” said Clapp.

TVA self-liquidating

In describing the organization of the TVA, Clapp characterized it as a “new administrative device” which is clothed with the authority of government, yet embodies the flexibility and initiative of private enterprise. The only appropriations which the Authority receives from Congress are for activities, such as flood control and the improvement of navigation. Funds for capital expenditures in the production of power are borrowed from the government, but are being repaid ahead of schedule.

The effects of the TVA on the Tennessee Valley itself, an area about one and a half times the size of New England, were first discussed in terms of electric power, navigation, and flood control. Later Clapp asserted, “Electricity has helped to spark a great economic change.” The improved standard of living for the people of the region is exemplified

NSA sets freedom week

A national academic freedom week was proclaimed at the December meeting of the National Executive Committee of the Nation Student Association, according to Karl Rodman, chairman of the Academic Freedom Subcom Cathyrine Allison, James Holland, and Carol Horning in a scene from “Playboy of the Western World" to be given by University Theatre this weekend in Mandel Hall. Tickets for the Sygne play are on sale now at the Reynolds Club desk. ,

SG passes Mich Plan revisions; provisions acceptable to Strozier

Choose scholars for SC exchange

The successful UC applicants for the Student Government exchange program with Frankfurt University were announced Wednesday by Clive Gray, president of Student Government.

James V. Compton and Joseph ; Zeland will spend the 1954-55 ' school year at Frankfurt University and under the exchange program two Frankfurt students will attend UC. Leslie Mittelman was named first alternate.

Compton holds an MA in history from UC and is presently studying in the education department. Zeland will receive his College AB in June.

The students from Frankfurt are granted free tuition from UC under the program which is administered by the SG. The first exchange was in 1952-53.

Quiz team represents UC; SC sponsors radio battle

“We hope the student body will give our team whole-hearted support when they enter into their first clash against Quiz Bowl champions this Thursday,” stated Clive Gray, Student Government president.

The contest will be held in Rosenwald 2 at 7 p.m., and will be broadcast over NBC on Sunday, Feb. 28, at 5 p.m.

College Quiz Bowl is a radio program presented by the National Broadcasting Company in which two teams, consisting of four members each representing two colleges or universities, compete in a quiz session for a $500 prize. The administration of each college may use the money for any activity it desires.

At the time the MAROON went to press, eight UC students were vying for positions on the team. “Of the fifty applicants, the contestants were’ reduced to their present number after three rounds of tough quizzing,” stated Gray.

These eight are Sylvia Boyd, Joby the fact that the average per capita income has increased from 44 per cent of the national average to more than 60 per cent since the beginning of TVA’s activities.

The Walgreen Foundation series on the TVA will continue today and next Monday, Wednesday, and Friday in Judd 126 at 8 p.m.

headed by Rodman and Peter Greene, chairman of the Student Committee on Academic Freedom.

According to Rodman, the steering committee is contacting prominent persons to speak on campus during academic freedom. The recordings made during the hearings of Senate subcommittee of internal security of UC personnel last June, will be played during the academic freedom week, Rodman added The provisions of the Michigan Plan as revised by Student Government on Feb. 9, have been approved by Dean of Students, Robert M. Strozier. Strozier indicated his position on Feb. 10 in a letter to Eli Stein, chairman of the SG committee on recognized student organizations (CORSO). (See text of revised Michigan Plan on page 4.)

Stein told the Maroon earlier this week he felt it was important that Strozier had definitely approved the Michigan Plan.

“The legislation adopted by the Student Government and approved by thy Administration seals the question of the implementation of the Michigan Plan,’* Stein stated.

He emphasized: “It is my opinion that the legislation adopted will effectively eliminate discriminatory membership requirements in University organizations by the end of 1954.” seph Engel, Stan Fox, Leonard Friedman, Joel Kupperman, Janet Robb, David Schlessinger, and Robert Ziner.

The results of a test consisting of sample questions from previous Quiz Bowl programs will determine the six finalists (four team members, two alternates). The examination will be judged by members of an SG committee and William Birenbaum, director of student activities.

A committee consisting of members of the students body and administrative officials at UC has decided to use this prize to finance a student exchange program with India. If the UC team remains in the competition, the committee will decide what other projects will receive the money.

If, however, UC doesn’t win the first battle, each member of the team will receive a Longine wristwatch.

Those who regret not entering the competition may be consoled after noting some of the examination questions below.

(1) Name three American transcendentalists. (2) From what poem are the following lines taken? Who is the author?

“I could not love thee, Dear, so much loved I not honor more.”

(3) Name as many French Premiers, since 1944, as possible; (4) To the number of days in the week in the French revolutionary calendar, add the hour which the clock struck when the mouse ran up it; from the sum, subtract the electoral votes which Landon got in the 1936 presidential election. THE CHICAGO MAROON February 19, 1954

Page 2

Test poetry

Heller delivers lectures on "Artist and the Work T

readers soon Describes romantic mind

Preliminary competition in the Florence James Adams poetry reading contest, conducted by the department of English, will be held in the James Henry Breasted Hall of the Oriental Institute, 3:30 p.m., April 23. The finals, will be held at the same time and place on April 30 to determine first, second, and third prize winners who will receive $75, $30, and $20, respectively.

The contest is open to all students in the University from the ages of 17 to 26, inclusive, who have completed at least two quarters of residence and are registered for two or more courses in the present quarter. Students wishing to enter must register by April 16 in the English office, Wieboldt 205.

All selections read must be from non-dramatic poetry and must have the approval of the department of English, represented by Mrs. Judith S. Bond. Mrs. Bond may be consulted between 9:30 and 10:30 Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays in the Modern Poetry Library, Harper W62.

More stress is laid on interpretative reading than on declamatory aspects of vocal expression. Therefore, the reading is from a book and is not “recitation.”

Clapp relates TV A success

labor, management cooperate

“The TVA is a record of men at work,” summarized Gordon C. Clapp, chairman of the board of the Tennessee Valley Authority, speaking on “Men and Management Rebuild A River,” in Judd Hall Wednesday. His talk was the second in a series of lectures, sponsored by the Walgreen Foundation.

“Money, materials, and men are the basic ingredients in

building a dam; however, ‘man’ is the greatest ingredient,” Clapp concluded. TVA has built 20 dams in 20 years—an impressive record—but, Clapp continued, “dams are not built to create impressive statistics.”

People are the most important factor in resource development. Not only is the welfare and happiness of individuals its true purpose, but they are the means by which that development is accomplished; their genius, their energies and spirit are the* instruments; it is not only “for the people” but “by the people.”

People create efficiency

The task of harmonizing and, from time to time, adjusting the intricate, detailed maze of pieces that make up the unified development of resources in a world of technology is something that simply cannot be done effectively from some remote government or business headquarters. The people must be in on that job. The necessities of management make it mandatory. Efficiency, in the barest operating sense, requires it. There is nothing in TVA experience, Clapp related, more heartening than this: that devices of management which give a lift to the human spirit turn out so often to be the most efficient methods.

It became evident to the early planners of TVA organization in 1933 that a valley development envisioned in its entirety could become a reality only if the people of the region did much of the planning and participated in most of the decisions.

Introduce merit system

During a period when piecemeal building of projects was common, the TVA was an unusual, if not unique, construction effort. It’s

“The early romantics attempted to incorporate all thought and feeling into a rational system,” said Erich Heller, professor of German literature at the College of the University of Wales. Heller spoke Tuesday night in the first of a series of lectures presented by the Committee on Social Thought and the Department of Germanic Languages and Literature on “The Artist and the World.”

“Attempting to integrate art and science, the ‘interesting’ and the ‘objective,’ the romantics failed,” Heller stated. “However, they did not fail because of the over-sensuality generally attributed to them; rather they failed because of over-rationality.”

“Over-rationality,” Heller feels, “is one of the outstanding features of the romantic mind.” In further developing this and other characteristics, he relied greatly on historical analysis.

Traces philosophical thought

He took as the starting point of the romantic period the turn by the German philosopher Schlegel from the traditional views of German philosophy—as represented in Kant—to a modification of the philosophy of Fichte. The early scholastics had attempted to justify to man the order in God’s created world. Rationalistic philosophy had assumed a fundamental likeness between man’s reason

employee selection methods, created by the problematic unemployment despair of the ’30s, was precedential. “Appointment of employees and officers ... is made on the basis of merit and efficiency alone,” states section six of the TVA Act.

To determine merit and skill, examinations were given to men in the region; they tested ability to follow oral and written instructions. These exams made history in the process of selecting and recruiting of a labor force. The “form 10” process laid the basis for understanding throughout the valley. The foundation for “selection on merit” was laid.

Develop labor relations

Later, steps in the development of TVA organization included a more intricate labor-management setup: committees were formed, collective bargaining introduced, agreements were signed, and the apprenticeship system adopted.

“The TVA has proven, contrary to popular myth, that government enterprise can be more economical and more effective than private enterprise,” Clapp stated, citing the Shawnee Steam Plant project as evidence.

•XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX'

READY TO PAINT

Bookcases

Record Cabinets Storage Cabinets Chests-of-Drawers

Hermans

935 E 55th st.

Open thurs. til 9

 

and the reason of a central Creative Intelligence. Kant had then denied that man fits into an order and stated instead that man creates the order into which he fits. After this, Fichte developed a theory in which he replaced God by a sort of superego. Finally, the early romantics misinterpreted Fichte’s thought into a doctrine of the omnipotence of the ego.

Romantics in dilemma

The romantics now found themselves in a dilemma: at the same time that they claimed man’s creation of reality, they found man frustrated by that same reality in his attempts to create. Heller sees this dilemma as the source of romantic irony, the “perpetual play between opposites.” The same opposition can be seen in the conflict between the individual and society. The romantics were always bothered by oppositions, particularly the opposition between the infinite variety found by historical research and the universal criteria demanded by absolutism. They could not, for example, evaluate a work within its times, and also judge how it should appear to all times.

“Provide a center"

The romantics thought the solution to their problem lay in the provision of a center for thought a ndaction. Hegel, for example, thought the poetry of his time was inferior because “it had no center, no mythology.” Unlike ancient writing, which had centered around its own mythology, the writing of his time was centerless.

Romantic Faust legend provides theme for historical discussion

by David Schlessinger

In the second of his three-lecture series on “The Artist and the World,” Erich Heller discussed “the exceptionalness of the last 400 years,” orienting his remarks around the theme of the story of Faust.

The first appearance in German literature of the Faust

legend has been marked by historians in a 1587 publication. Its basic theme—the adjustment of man to the dissolution of the previous belief in a divinelyordered world—found immediate popularity throughout European literature and has remained popular until now.

Faust expresses conflict

The story of Dr. Faustus has great appeal because it emphasizes the clash between the law of God and/hat law which man is unto himself. To Marlowe, Faust became a searcher for the order of reality. To the age of reason, Faust was an intellectual hero demonstrating the triumph of the desire for pure reason. But to the romantics, Faust was the expression of their own internal conflict.

The “internal conflict” of Faust was perpetual for the romantics: a tension between the desire for knowledge and the feelings of emotionalism. In Goethe’s great work, there is an attempt to resolve this conflict; Faust is given two souls. This, however, solves nothing. The two souls certainly cannot act independently and are really not two souls, but are only one soul divided within itself. Faust, Goethe—all the romantics, were torn between a belief in intellectual striving toward ultimate reality and a belief in the power of the self, between a desire for rest and a striving for truth, between despair and optimism.

Schopenhauer influenced Mann

In the period separating Goethe’s world from the world of Thomas Mann, the next great

^interpreter of Faust, lived the ro- today. In the words of Goethe,

When you know your beer

it's bound to be Bud

You see it so often... a warm welcome for a cold bottle of Budweiser. And it’s . no wonder that the distinctive taste of

Budweiser pleases people as no other beer can do •.. for only Budweiser is brewed by the costliest process on Earth.

mantic philosopher Schopenhauer, who exerted enormous influence on Mann. Schopenhauer postulated that everything that exists is a manifestation of one force: the evil Will. In order to be objective about itself, the Will had to split into parts, and men are only parts of this Will. In other words, the Will split into quantitative sections; but it remained qualitatively the same evilness.

However, embarrassed and frustrated by the presence of other fragmentary Wills, each fragmentary Will is opposed to all others. To Schopenhauer, this meant that man can turn against the Will and establish a sphere of pure artistic contemplation far above the world of the evil Will. Leagues with Devil

From the doctrine of Schopenhauer developed much of the romantic speculation and glorification of art. Mann, indeed, took Schopenhauer to heart when he began to write his Faust. However, he found that rejection and transscendence of the world could not be accomplished by something artistically outside the real world; it had to be accomplisned by a league with the supernatural Devil. Once again, in Mann, the

“evil,” morally wrong seen—the tragic Faust lowe.

But the creation of

Faust is of Mara Mann

Faust which complements that of the sixteenth century certainly does not solve the moral problem presented in the Faust legend, a problem which remains with us

DANGER! IT’S CONTAGIOUS!

The Howling Laughter in THE “NARCOTICS ISSUE!” of SHAFT HUMOR MAGAZINE!

Budweiser

Read: “ Roar at

Confessions of a Licorice Eater!"

: "Fertility"; A Tale of Soviet Love!

Get the Yak-Filled Shaft at U of C Bookstore Today!

USTEN TO "SPORTS TODAY” WITH BILL STERN ABC RADIO NETWORK MONDAY THRU FRIDAY

354-1

Leads All Beers In Sales Today ...and Through The Yearsl

ANHEUSER

ST. LOU I S, MO .

NEWARK, N. J February 19, 1954

THE CHICAGO MAROON

Page 3

Ready reference guide Wash Pram Weekend

Friday, February 19

8:00 p.m.—Basketball Game Fieldhouse

Chicago vs. Elmhurst 5550 University

Saturday, February 20

3 :30 p.m.—University Theater presents Synge's "Playboy of the Western World" Mandel Hall

7-10 p.m.—Open houses at Burton-Judson Court# Burton Lounge Snell-Hitchcock

8:00 p.m.—Fraternity open houses*

9:00 p.m —THE WASHINGTON PROMENADE Bartlett Gymnasium 12:00 mid.—Crowning of the Queen

1-3 a.m.—Breakfast Hutchinson Commons

Sunday, February 21

11:00 a.m.—Chapel Services Rockefeller Chapel

2:30 p.m.—Agnes De Mille Dance Troup Opera House

* Closed parties

International House to add

Qerman table on Mondays

After an absence of two years, the International House Association is sponsoring a series of language tables in the dining room of International House.

In addition to the French table which has been in operation during the past quarter, the house now plans to have a German language table. The table is planned for Monday nights at 6 p.m. All students, faculty members and those interested in meeting and discussing with German speaking people are invited to join the table for dinner.

According to Marianne Aspman, co-chairman of the program committee of International House, the French table has been a successful venture. She expressed confidence that the German table would do just as well as the French table. If the tables meet the expectations of the program committee, a Spanish language table will be started next quarter.

l OTTl ED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY

Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Chicago, Inc.

’^Cok.” it • ry Ul*r.d trade-mark.

UC Protestant groups to observe universal prayer day for students

The Universal Day of Prayer for Students will be observed by all Protestant groups at the University of Chicago Sunday, at 7:30 p.m., in Rockefeller Memorial Chapel.

This annual observance is celebrated in colleges and universities in 54 nations around the world. The speaker will be Mr. Herluf Jensen, a member of the central committee of the

World Student Christian Federation.

Students of various denomnations, races, and nationalities will participate in the service at Rockefeller Chapel; the processional will include the officers and student pastors of all Protestant

o If53, Th Coca-Cola Company

Pizza pie craze hits UC campus, C'shop complies

Lovers of pizza need not search the surrounding neighborhood shops at night any longer. The Reynolds Club coffee shop, in response to what Commons officials termed, an overwhelming demand from UC students, has decided to include pizza pies on their evening menus.

Bar-b-q beef and chili (with crackers) which are now served during the day, have also been added to the nighttime menu. The pizza will be a twelve inch size and will cost $1.20. A quarter of a pie and a cup of coffee will be 40c.

This new menu will be available this evening for the first time. Harada to talk

The second in a semi-monthly series of discussions for university students on the Buddhist religion will be held at the Chicago Zen Buddhist Church, 1316 N. Clark St., on Monday, March 1, at 8 p.m.

The discussion will be led by Mr. Harry Harada, the librarian of Oriental books at Northwestern University.

groups with work on the campus: Baptist, Christian Science, Con Evangelical and Reformed, Disciples of Christ,

Episcopal, Lutheran, Presbyterian. Society and Unitarian.

An open house and for all students will

Methodist, of Friends,

coffee hour be held at

Chapel House, 5810 Woodlawn Avenue, immediately after the service. This social hour will be presented by the Methodist Student Fellowship with Barbara Frederick as chairman.

— Portraits by LOUISE BARKER Photographer

1457 E. 57th St. BU 8-0876

FOR SALE

Apartment — 7 rooms, 3 baths; elevator: 4 exposures. 4 blocks from University.

HY 3-9137

ACASA Book Store VALENTINES Contemporary and Traditional Guaranteed typewriter repair service

1117 E. 55th St. “ HY 3-9651

Sth ANNUAL SUMMER ADVENTURE] [CRUISE TOUR ... 6 units credit, S. F.l [state, S. S. President Cleveland, June! Ml-Sept. ♦. Soo your travel agent.]

STOP TOURS, Berkeley, Calif.

Propose student tax relief to encourage enrollments

Speaking before the House of Representatives late last month, the honorable Abraham J. Multer (Dem., N.Y.) urged the support of his bill (H.R. 1274) providing that full reasonable expenses for college education should be tax deductible.

Multer declared, “... we should, if possible, give every child in this country an opportunity to get a college education. This bill will go a long way toward bringing that about by making it possible for these parents,

who, if they can get this tax relief, will get at least some help in sending their children through the colleges and universities of our country."

The recommendation of the House ways and means committee to continue the present $600 exemption beyond the age of 18 if the child is a student, does not, in

SU, Outing club offer ski trips

Days of exciting skiing and nights of parties await UC skiers in two student-sponsored ski holidays, a week-end trip to Mt. Telemark, near Cable, Wis., and a 10-day excursion to the Colorado mountain ski runs.

Skiers who enjoy battling seven to 14 inches of Wisconsin snow may join the Feb. 27 trip to Mt. Telemark. A charge

of $25 will cover all costs, including transportation and lodgings and food at the comfortable Mt. Telemark lodge. Further information may be obtained from the SU office or from Dick Sommerfield, Ba. 1-3864.

Best midwest snows

Mt. Telema Tk is said to have the best skiing snows and skiing facilities in the midwest. Eight runs of varying heights and degrees of difficulty, the highest of.which reaches to 2.600 feet, will challenge new and experienced skiers. Colorado trip planned

Continuing its popular series of Christmas and Spring vacation skiing trips, SU Outing Club will also offer another ten-day holidayon skiis, March 19-28.

Transportation by chartered UC bus, lodgings at the Dillon’s hotel

Muller’s opinion, go far enough, though it is a step in the right direction. The present lack of students in colleges and universities is due to the inability ot parents to pay tuition, Multer believes. He expressed his appreciation of college organizations and publications and of the National Student Association, for their help in supporting and publicizing his bill for making educational expenses tax exempt.

in the sky, and daily meals at the Blue Ribbon Tap are included in the seventy-five dollar charge. Arrangements may be made by contacting Don Wentzel at SU. A deposit of twenty-five dollars must be placed before March 10.

Open to beginners

The vacation trip is open to beginners and veterans of former ski trips. For beginners equipment rental is available; the lodge is offering expert instruction by one of the country’s leading instructors, known to Colorado skiers as “Sympathetic Max.”

Skiers will maneuver runs intricately arranged over the 12,000 foot high mountains of the snowy Arapahoe Basin. For skiing over and falling into, the mountains are blanketed by thirty inches of Colorado snows.

WHERE THE U of C MEETS TO EAT

Gc Aclcm’4

-FINE FOOD

’321 East 5 7th Street

{ /go I WITH ^Opf^i '.no MEET THE PEOPLE o,' JAPANAND THE 0u&tf 

THE CHICAGO MAROON

February 19, 1954

Issued once weekly by the publisher. The Chicago Maroon, at the publication office, 5706 South University Avenue, Chicogo 37, Illinois. Telephones: Editorial Office, Midway 3-0800, Ext. 1010; Business and Advertising Offices, Midway 3-08 00, Ext. 1009. Distributed free of charge, and subscriptions by moil, $3 per year. Business Office hours: 1 to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday.

Gives text of Michigan Plan

as revised at last SG meeting

Resolved, That the following be added as Section 11, A, 8, e:

1. However, campus groups affiliated with national organizations that have discriminatory clauses in their national constitution after October 1, 1953, may appeal to the Student Assembly for an extension of recognition until October 15, 1954.

2. After October 15, 1954, such organizations shall automatically lose recognition and

Arthur Brown Richard E. Ward

editor-in-chief managing editor

News editors: Noomi Birnboum, Allen Jonger

News Feature editor: Nellie Stoneman

Feature editor: Daniel Queen

Sports editor: Paul A. Hoffman

Copy editor: Shirley Long

Advertising manager: Revo Brown

Production manager: Joanna Herlihy

Editorial staff: Robert Bloch, William Brandon, Poul Breslow, Joy Burbach, Allen Coleman, Sondra Epstein, Leslie Foster, Suzanne Friedman, Ralph B. Hirsch, Roberta Hopkins, Arlene Kramer, Jon Moide, C. Roy Moisch, Robert Mc Cluskie, Spike Pinney, Karl Rodman, Dovid Schlessinger, Mitchell Slein, Judy Smith, Franz Snyder, Horry Whiteley, Neal Mermoll, Justin Johnson, Wolf Roder, Stephen Cohen, Jock Burbach, Frank G. Ternenyi, Richard Herwitt, Dovis Dobrow

Cartoonist: Roy Nelson

Copy staff: Jerry Ex, Pom Brown

Photographers: Joe Wolf, Richord Kluckholn

It >s by faith, brother, that ye understand

Letters Defends critics' rights

Apropos those readers of you who wem to be harassing your music critic. 1 would like to bring the following comment. Any appraisal of a performance cannot possibly be divorced from one’s pleasure or displeasure of the total form of the composition. Since there is no universal criterion to determine as to whose attitude in this regard is valid, one takes it for granted that the appraisal of a music critic reflects more or less, his own opinions.

The very fact that some of your readers cannot recognize this simple but fundamental truism indicates their real rather than apparent frustration in a direction which they seem to be unable to face and admit. Had Mr. Winsberg spoken highly of Stravinsky for example, I have strong doubts whether you would get the same objections to him regarding the interjection of personal bias into his review.

In my judgement, Mr. Winsberg, who certainly cannot be regarded as exempt from error, criticized Stravinsky much more mildly than, this musical apostle of contemporary malaise deserves. Unable to convert his intense neurosis into intelligible creativity and possibly beauty—as Beethoven so mastefully succeeded in doing—he continues helplessly, and, with the stubbornness of a blind fanatic, desperately, to take refuge in the senseless labyrinth of technique. Remember his motto alluding to “My thoroughly worked out compositions!”'

Let us not confuse the incidence of the musical reverberations of our peraonal miseries with the standards of classicism that goes beyond mere reverberation of human misery, overcomes it and culminates in a tangible triumph of art. This, I submit is a far cry from the compulsions of inept neurotics, who, under the watchword •'modernism” keep trying to be different under all circumstances.

Irene Hamner

Approves Winsberg

It is unpleasant to imagine what would remain if the emasculation of Fred Winsberg’s music reviews demanded by Fran oshlag (MAROON, February 12) were carried out. One who clings tubbornly to the belief that there is more to listen for at concerts than virtuosity will applaud a reviewer who expresses intelligent opinions on the quality of the works performed, although his opinions may differ from one’s own musical preferences or from accepted views’ of “masters’* and masterpieces. Since there is at least as much room for diisagreement about the merits of a performance as of a work,

why cannot our self-sufficient concertgoer form his own opinions about both and dispense with reviews altogether?

But clearly performance and interpretation are meaningless apart from considerations of the purpose and scope of a work. These considerations, far from being settled for all time, are perpetually open to the discussion and revision which form the chief creative function of criticism.

Judy Smith

Dislikes Ads

Whom does CAP AND GOWN think it is appealing to by such advertisements as:

Cripes’ What a Book’!! Hortense Fandangle, freshmen. Green, is snowed by the 1954 CAP AND GOWN with Phoenix Supplement. She goes ape for Its suave sophistication, its scintillating humor, its smutty approach to campus life.

If this is the new approach to a yearbook on this campus then I am going to keep my $4. Do the editors of CAP AND GOWN really think the majority of the students want a yearbook of suave sophistication with a smutty approach to campus life? It seems to me that there is something seriously wrong with the whole idea of what a yearbook on this campus should be. Does anyone seriously think that the yearbook as foreshadowed in its advertising campaign and the special Wash Prom issue of the Phoenix is representative of campus life and the vast majority of the students? It seems to me that some few are trying to mold everyone else in their own image.

Lorry Littlejohn

Walkout misunderstood

I had hoped that SRP’s walkout from the student assembly would serve to dramatize the issues involved in the Michigan Plan amendment—a position which had been obscured in the assembly by the majority’s suppression of minority and thp partisan behavior of SG’s president.

The humorous letter of Mr. Herbert Schwartz has, however, destroyed that hope—it was probably foolish to think that ISL would ever honestly inform the campus of its activity.

It is, of course, a lie that SRP walked out in order to provoke the calling of a quorum; nine ISLers left and but six SRPers. The quorum was called by an ISL member.

Mr. Schwartz, who almost never speaks in SG, apparently has such contempt for self-expression that he is led to suggest a dichotomy between it and responsibility to the electorate. Since we were elected by students who knew our opinions on the Michigan Plan—unlike the ISL, which disguised its true attitude—the course of responshall be ineligible to receive further automatic or official recognition, unless one of the following conditions has been fulfilled:

A. In case of a local organization whose national organization has adopted an amendment striking the discriminatory clause subject to ratification at one further convention of the organization, the local organization must file a statement to this effect with the Student Government and the Dean of Students’ office by Octo ber 15, 1954. If this aforesaid amendment to the national constitution is not finally ratified by the next meeting of the national organization, the local organization shall be entitled to receive recognition only under condition “B" below.

B. In any case not covered by condition “A” above, it shall be necessary for the organization in question to file yearly public statements that the organization is not bound by any discriminatory clauses, local or national. This condition shall be considered fulfilled only if in the period of October 10 through October 15 of each year the organization files with the Student Government and the Dean of Students’ office the following statement:

“We, (name of organization), state publicly and officially that we are not bound by any constitutional provision and structure, bylaw, or agreement in any form, to limit or prohibit membership in our organization on the basis of race, religion, color, or national origin.”

3. Failure to comply with at least one of the conditions “A” and “B” above by October 15 of each year after the passage of this bill, shall automatically result in loss of recognition for the organization in question, provided that when a statement is filed after the first national convention, as indicated in “A” above, that statement shall suffice until October 15 of the the year in which the second convention occurs. This loss of recognition shall not necessitate action on the part of the Student Assembly, but shall be automatically enforced by the Dean of Students’ office.

sibility seemed quite obviously to be to express our views. When prevented from doing so (even the rules have become ineffective In this year’s SG), there was little reason to remain as an audience for the president’s frenetic rationalizations of his distortions of parliamentary law.

Unfortunately the space limitations of the MAROON prevent me from presenting the details of the situation which led up to the walk-out. I would call the attention of the campus to the following facts:

l.The Stein amendment makes meaningless the power and effectiveness of Student Governments

2. ISL, contrary to Its election pledges, did not enforce the Michigan Plan, but amended it to prevent its application against the one discriminatory.

1 3. No attempt was made by ISL to involve the participation of the campus in the Michigan Plan amendment discussions.

4. Undemocratic and illegal techniques were used by the majority party to secure passage of the Stein amendment.

Paul Breslow Chairman, SRP

Export Pep

Chancellor Kimpton, referring to the college changes, has often boasted of taking a step toward closer “harmony with our sister institutions.” In connection with furthering the cause of collegiate conformity, I submit the following suggestion to the administration.

An acquaintance of mine who is now an undergrad at Northwestern has told me that due to the failure of the Wildcat football team this fall, there has been a disturbing drop in the traditional school spirit of the student body there. After reading the Camp and Gown’s special Wash Prom “Phoenix” supplement 1 would urge Mr. Kimpton —as a goodwill gesture—to gift wrap the Phi Gams, the rest of the Cap and Gown staff, the Pep Club, and Bill Birenbaum and send this spirit-spreading package to the Evanston campus.

Rippety- tear 1 Rippety-tear! Rippetytearl

* —Publius

MAROON distorts

Last week’s MAROON story about Student Government’s revision of the Michigan Plan resulted in some confusion because of the light in which the

College Quarterly Schedule

Winter, 1954

The following exominotion schedule has been prepared for the present Winter Quarter:

Monday, March 15

2:30-4:30 Humonities JB Mandel Hall Wednesday, March 17 8:00-9:30 French IB Judd 126 French H1B Cobb 306 French T1 B Cobb 305 French 2B^ Cobb 415 German 1B Mandel Holl Spanish IB Cobb 110 Greek 1B Cobb 408 Latin 1B Cobb 408 Russian IB Cobb 416 10:00-11:30 Social Sciences 2B Mandel Holl 10:00-12:00 English B: Cobb 312 sec. oa) Cobb 103 sec. ac) Cobb 101 • sec. ba) Cobb 416 sec. be) Cobb 102 sec. co) sec. go) Cobb 104 secs, ob, bb, cb, da, gb) Judd 126 1:00-2:30 Social Sciences IB Mandel Hall 3:00-5.00 Humonties 3B Mandel Hall Humonities 3B (French) Cobb 104 Humonities 3B (German) Cobb 309 Thursday, March 18 8:00-9:30 Social Sciences 3B Mandel Hall 10:00-11:30 Mathematics 1B Mandel Holl Mathematics 2B Eckhart 133 1:00-3:00 Natural Sciences IB Mondel Holl 3:30-5:00 Humonities 2B Mandel Hail Friday, March 19 8:00-9:30 Not Sci 3B (Biological) Judd 126 Not Sci 3B (Physical) Cobb 110

facts were presented and the omission of other facts.

The emphasis on the SRP walkout overshadowed the constructive step in effectively eliminating discriminatory obligations on the part of fraternities on this campus. It was most disappointing to note that no statement from an ISL spokesman, explaining this amendment to the Code, was included to counterbalance the SRP objections given in some detail. The student body has the right to learn through its newspaper that an overwhelming majority of Student Government supported the ISL sponsored proposal as being the most effective and realistic way of putting an end to legally enforced discrimination among UC fraterntles. The vote was greater than 3 to 1 in favor of the amendment to the Michigan Plan.

No matter of SG business In recent years has received as much publicity as this plan and yet that night six members of SRP were absent. Opposition to the amendment seems to have been confined to a handful of persons who are either doctrinaire or just plain stubborn.

The whole report of the action resulting from the motion to reconsider was meaninglessly garbled. Robert’s Rules of Order says that a motion to reconsider is out of order if it applies to a change in the rules of a body and if that change needs previous notice to members of that body. Such was the case Tuesday night. When the Assembly voted that the President was correct in his ruling that the motion was out of Oder and that proper parliamentary procedure must be followed, the SRP members walked out. It was as simple as that.

One further observation about that •’walkout.” The next Item of business was to have been a SRP sponsored bill which through the courtesy of the majority party had been raised to a high place on the agenda. They chose to repay this courtesy by walking out to break a quorum.

Finally, perhaps a more adequate stody would have resulted If the MAROON reporter had not joined SRP in walking out of the Student Government meeting.

Mubrey E. Golyon

RL Floor Leoder. S. G.

S. G. lacks spirit

Like the power of royalty, which is granted by God, the power of Student Government is granted by Dean Strozier. A grant from the former seems to be somewhat more durable than one from his UC analogue, however.

In 1951, Dean of Students Robert M. Strozier, entered into an agreement with the student body of UC, through its elected representatives, which provided, in effect, that no discriminatory fraternity would exist on this campus in 1954. But when 1954 finally rolled around the dean contended that It was only the spirit of the agreement that he had approved. We contend, in support of the dean’s position, that calendars are notoriously lacking in spirit, but it also seems to us that our student government is equally deficient In elan vitale.

Instead of fighting for Its just position, SG chose to back down meekly, and wait until next fall, and possibly 1956. Strozier was pleased enough to send a letter to these valiant people agreeing to enforce the new provisions, and they graciously conceded that Strozier’s word, vintage 1954, Is of a rarer bouquet than Strozier’s word, vintage

1951. That they bargained away their rights and some non-aryan blood for a bird in the bush, seems not to bother them.

We caution the student body to keep ite eyes open, lest the bird in the bush slip away as effortlessly as his prececessor.

J. W.

Gray replies*

Ordinarily it would not be in my province as Student Government president to reply to a partisan letter such as appeared in last week’s MAROON criticizing by chairing of Tuesday’s SG meeting. However, I have been warned that since the three signers of the letter, though all staunch members of SRP, also state their disapproval of that party’s disgraceful walkout in the meeting, the letter thereby assumes a dispassionate and hence plausible tone. So perhaps I had best enter a lew words in my defense.

The primary charge, that I “immorally” ruled the reconsideration motion out of order, is nothing short of facetious, since the ruling was based on an explicit and obvious point in Robert’s Rules of Order, what that point is, and the fact that the Government voted to support my ruling, is explained in an adjoining letter.

The charge that I “insolently” attempted to “stifle genuine applause by the spectators” must be a joke, as the writers know full well that SG. as nearly all democratic assemblies, limits noise-making in its sessions to actual members. It Is well-known that undemocratic pressures can easily result from allowing unrepresentatives groups to lobby vociferously In a small assembly.

I might correctly be criticized for calling down an SRP member in the midst of his parliamentary attack on me, though he deserved little else after his sassy provocations had greatly added to the tenseness of the meeting.

I would like to conclude by saying that anyone who is interested to know whether SRP members are given courteous treatment in SG debates would be welcome to come to this Tuesday’s meeting and observe.

Clive Gray, President Student Government

SRP upheld

As a member of SRP I must take exception to the remarks of Messrs. Rodman, Rosenthal and Lichtenstein, as printed in last week’s MAROON, concerning the SRP members from the Student Government meeting of February 9. These good gentlemen, all members of SRP, referred to the walkout as “by far the most Inexcusable action of the evening” as “Irresponsible” and implied that their fellow SPR’ers had expressed a lack of interest in the problems of the campus.

Quite apart from the question of the letter is the fact that its submission by these gentlemen, before they had an opportunity to solicit the opinion of the rest of the caucus, stands as an insulting example of unconcern for the party and a profession of little faith in their fellow members.

The action of all but one of the SRP members of SG (Mr. Lichtenstein saw fit not to walk out) was as understandable and proper as it was compatible with the party’s platform (which was supported by 45 per cent of the voting campus). The Michigan Plan was to end discrimination in campus organizations by October, 1953. As part ql the Student Code, it stood as a February 19, 1954

THE CHICAGO MAROON

Page $

To take grad photos

Cap and Gown is now taking photographs of students who plan to receieve a degree in June or in December. Pictures will be taken on the third floor of the Reynolds Club. Call Cap and Gown at University extension 1060 to make an appointment.

Poetry contest open to UCers

Eby urges sincere writing

SQ to consider / co-op housing

The student housing cooperative will be under consideration at the next meeting of Student Government, according to Clive Gray, SG president. • .

Also on the tentative agenda will be the question of what should be done with the money from the College Quiz Bowl—if the UC team wins the radio quiz. The student needs committee has some bills to present to the Student Assembly, Gray also stated.

The SG meeting, which is open to student visitors, will be held next Tuesday, Feb. 23, in Law North at 7:30 p.m.

Prizes of $100 and $50 are offered for an original poem or cycle of poems in the John Billings Fiske poetry contest. The poems are to be submitted to the English department, Wieboldt 205, not later than May 1; they are not limited as to length, subject, or form.

All regularly registered s t u dents in the University are eligible to compete. Only unpublished poems may be submitted in the contest, and the University reserves the right of first publication of the winning contribution.

Each contestant should submit his entry typewritten and signed with a pseudonym. A sealed envelope should be enclosed containing a card bearing the pseudonym, the name of the contribution, and the name and address of the contributor.

The prizes may be withheld if, in the opinion of the judges, none of the poems submitted merits the awards.

to communication members

“This sounds something like ‘Confessions of an Opium Eater,’ to title my talk ‘Reminiscences of a Propagandist.’ I would never confess to being a propagandist,” said Kermit Eby, professor of social science and former director of education with the C.I.O. He then

good-naturedly explained to the Communications Club last Tuesday that he considered himself an educator rather than a propagandist. The difference, he maintained, is that the propagandist advocates, as the only point of view, that which benefits some private interest, while the educator recognizes other points of view, and defends that one which “serves the larger interest of public advancement.”

Eby said he believed that “an organization grows stronger as the people in it know more—not a popular doctrine among organizers. My loyalty was always to the human aspiration in the labor movement.”

Tells how to influence opinion

He then went on to outline the prerequisites, discovered during many years of speaking and writing, for successfully influencing public opinion. “First,” he said, “you can’t be effective in selling an idea unless you believe it”; and second—“the message is incidentai to the acceptance of the speaker (or writer).”

Eby cited as an “absolute and paramount necessity” finding the common ground with an audience. In large part, he felt that “getting the feel of an audience — understanding its aspirations and prejudices,” was intuitive and couldn’t be taught; at the same time, he stressed that you don’t have to be a farmer to talk to farmers.

Emphasizes personal contact

Eby said he often found his common ground in “washrooms and over lunchpails,” and maintained that “there is nothing cynical in finding something out about Wesley before talking to a group of Methodists.” He placed

Croup norms in industry discussed by business executives in conference

That study of group norms in industry is conducted on presuppositions similar to

the

studies of any particular group anywhere was the essence of a paper delivered by Dr. Robert K. Burns of the Industrial Relations Center before the American Management Association.

The business executives met in the Palmer House for a three-day conference last Tuesday. Surveys of employee attitudes can serve business as bench marks of the present and goal

Positions offered

Positions in chemistry, physics, mathematics, metallurgy, and engineering are being offered by the United States Civil Service Commission.

Applicants must be college sophomores or juniors majoring in any of the above fields and m^st pass a written test.

a great deal of importance on personal contact and experience, and with it the vitality of the parable -— the illustration drawn from one’s own life. He concluded, however, that the best training for persuasive writing “is to write and write and write—for speaking, to speak at every opportunity.”

Likes convincing writer

“The prize in my classes goes to the student who can write convincingly for the greatest diversity of audiences,” Eby said. He pointed out that “one of the greatest wastes in the world” was the accumulation of ideas at UC that never got beyond the doctorate thesis, and he asked, “Why not translate these wonderful nuggets into the language of life?” He cited the large audiences of farmers, church people and women who could be reached with these “nuggets” through magazines, if they could be written in the particular vernacular of the audience. But, he concluded, “You’ve got to write out of the white heat of your convictions, so that when you read what you have written you even believe it yourself.”

posts for the future, Burns said. He spoke at a session on special personnel techniques.

Fundamentally, Burns said, the attitude survey is an artificial way of determining attitudes and feelings. It fragmentalises and compartmentalises employees' attitudes into various categories and areas of interest, such as pay,

Interns in education named

working conditions, the boss, and so on.

The advantage of this method, according to Burns, is that it helps the person who lacks the skill to express his feelings or who has no other channel for self expression. Its disadvantage is that a mechanical interpretation of the

Your future

depends on the

RIGHT START

Join a progressive dynamic company that is setting new records in the electronic industry

results is impossible, and if possible, would be meaningless.

“We cainnot simply combine the scores into totals and sub totals,” Burns declared. “We must do more than this. We know from empirical studies that work groups develop their own normative standards of behavior which are both expected from members and enforced on them. In a sense, the questionnaire results are nothing more than basic clues, the primary data, from which is reconstructed the complex pattern of attitudes and feeling which exist in each group. ”

The job of interpretation, Burns explained, is fundamentally one of drawing together all the responses to individual items from a group and relating these back into a meaningful whole. Through the language of the’questionnairs, the test interpreter must determine what is behind what the employees say, and what problems they may be trying to express.

three come to Chicago

Twelve college and university teachers have been named by Chicago, Columbia, Harvard, and Yale universities as interns in general education for the academic year 1954-55, it was announced last month by F. Champion Ward, now retired dean of the college. Ward is a member of the committee on internships in general education, under the auspices of the

Carnegie Corporation.

Each of the four participating institutions accepts three of the visiting teachers for a year of intensive residence for study of its program of general education. Each visitor teaches one course as a part of this study.

“The internships established by the Carnegie Corporation are unique in providing for study of general education, and they are important because of the growing interest in such education,” Mr. Ward stated.

Although the programs of genjra YTHEiw

Seniors and Graduate Students

eral education at the four institutions are not identical, they do have the common educational purpose of providing students thorough basic training in the broad fields of human knowledge. Mr. Ward also stated, “the knowledge which will be most helpful to other institutions is gained by direct association.’’

The interns for the next year at the University of Chicago are:

Frank C. Erk, associate professor of biology, Washington College, Chestertown, Maryland.

William Henry Spragens, associate professor of mathematics, University of Mississippi.

Marvin B. Sussman, assistant professor and chairman, department of sociology, Union College, Schnectady, N. Y.

Openings available for:

ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS • CHEMICAL ENGINEERS

MECHANICAL ENGINEERS

PHYSICISTS

RAYTHEON is a pioneer and a leader in the electronic industry.

First to provide transistors in production quantities.

First to solve the problems of the mass production of magnetrons.

The leading supplier of commercial radar and underwater sound equipment.

Out front in research and engineering in receiving tubes, special purpose, klystron, cathode ray, and magnetron tubes, digital computers, ultrasonic equipment, control mechanisms, radar, communications, and TV equipment.

Raytheon Manufacturing Company

Waltham, Massachusetts

Call your College Placement Office for appointment

CAMPUS INTERVIEWS

HARRY A. ZISOOK & SONS

University District Renting Office

MAYFLOWER HOTEL

6125 KENWOOD AVENUE

Let us help you

GET OUT OF THE ROOMING HOUSES AND SUBSTANDARD BUILDINGS IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD For the convenience and accomodation of the Students, Faculty and Employees of the University we have opened a University District Renting Office to serve you in obtaining better housing.

Come in and let us know what your requirements are so that we may assist you.

AVAILABLE NOW AND/OR MARCH 1st

Hotel rooms with private bath and shower Sgl.—$8 per wk.; dbl.—$12 per wk.

Hotel apts. with switchboard and maid service

1 rm. apt. at $90 per mo.

2 rm. apt. at $107.50 per mo.

office hours 9 a.m. to 5 p.m Monday thru Friday THERE IS NO CHARGE FOR THIS SERVICE

main office

HARRY A. ZISOOK

Real Estate

100 W. MONROE ST. ,

Serving Chicago since

& SONS

RAndolph 6-9250

1907

Chemistry man honored

William F. Libby, professor of chemistry in the Institute of Nuclear Studies, was honored at Columbia University Wednesday. Libby was awarded Columbia's Chandler Medal, which is given for outstanding achievement in the field of chemistry. Libby is the originator of the Carbon 14 method of accurately determining the age of organic materials.

BEETHOVEN MISSA SOLEMNIS TOSCANINI

2 records — $7.98

Advance orders being taken now

The T\ •

Disc

1367 E. 57th St. Fage 6

THE CHICAGO MAROON

February 19, 1954

Ward surveys Soviet art

Most of the Soviet students we met showed a great amount of interest in American culvral life. The students wanted to know what literature we studied in school. They inquired about our symphony orchestras, ballet troups, and theatres.

At Kiev University, which has an enrollment of 6,000, we met some students who had an excellent knowledge of English. We were told that the main English and American writers they had studied during their schooling were Shakespeare, Dickens, London, Twain, Dreiser, and Howard Fast. Other 

Widely read American authors bum of the opera, “Boris Godu- a rather unfriendly light. I could are Steinbeck and Heming- nov” for 40 rubles or $10. There not help but laugh at the carijuvay. * were four 12-inch L-P records used cature of Mc Arthur. However,

The students that study English in the recordings. They were the “criticism’’ was rather sharp, read these writers in English, more expensive than individual The young people were interested Most students however, read them disks, which were about $1.75. in our opinion of the “criticism.” in Russian translations, we were The price of the records par- While in Moscow we heard a told. tially reflects the Soviet attitude performance of the State Orches Mike: on expert on America toward culture, our interpreter in tra of the USSR. I was disappoint There was one student at Kiev Kiev explained. He stated that ed that there were no classical University whom we called Mike, books, and admissions to concerts works on the program, because He was evidently preparing to be were also inexpensive. that would have afforded me a

an expert on America. Mi e was Bouct |lve$ Mp to Jt$ ^^1;^ better chance to compare it with

a graduate history student, but ne j visited the ballet six times other orchestras I have heard. It and also went to some concerts is supposedly the best orchestra and opera performances. We in the Soviet Union.

usually sat in the front row of the On the evening we visited, the theatre; our tickets were not in- major work was Shostakovich's expensive. new Tenth Symphony. It was its

The ballet was excellent in all second performance in the Soviet the cities we visited. There were Union. We learned that it is cusfew empty seats at the ballet, tomary for Soviet composers to although performances are fre- he present at early performances quently repeated. Outside of Mos- of their works.

cow young people comprised the Meet Shostakovich

The above photograph shows a party held in the St. George's Hall of the Great*Palace of the Kremlin which the US student editors attended during their visit to the Soviet Union. The party was held during evening of January and was sponsored by the Central Committee of the Komsomol (Young Communist League) and the Moscow trade unions. Young workers and students from the Moscow area attended the party in different national Russian costumes. Richard Ward and Dove Barney, editor from Reed college, ore shown on the left and right sides of the Russian student in the center.

Reports on USSR

This is the third installment by Richard E. Ward, MAROON managing editor, on his recent trip to the Soviet Union with six other American college editors. The concluding installments will appear in the next two weeks.

first took us to task in a discus- majority of the audience. After the concert the composers

Sion of Faulkner, his favorite In Kharkov, at the performance discuss the performances with American author. of the Red Poppy, over two-hun- members of the orchestra. We

Mike said that he didn’t think dred young people surrounded us asked our interpreter if we could Mc Carthy is “representative of during one of the intermissions, meet Shostakovitch. The interthe American people." But he fol- It was almost impossible to keep preter spent both intermissions on lowed this by saying he felt it up with the numerous questions, the matter with apparently no “very significant” that Mc Carthy which were mostly about Amer- results. At the end of the concert occupies an important post in our ican student life. # he suddenly announced that we

government. Mac Arthur caricatured k were going to meet Shostakovich.

Disturbed at "bobby-soxer" label The Red Poppy, familiar to Dmitri Shostakovich was shv ^ Americans, has been but friendly during the interview paper Mike read. He told us that.changed in recent Soviet adapta- He told us that he liked Copland he read the New York Times ac- tions. The ballet portrays former and Gershwin. His next work will counts of the first college editors American relations with China in be an opera, he revealed trip to the Soviet Union last 

Prima ballerina gives autobiography

We also had a back-stage interview at the Bolshoi Theatre in Moscow. During our last full day in Moscow we saw a performance of the Swan Lake Ballet. I had previously seen the ballet in Kiev. It was interpreted differently at each theatre, but the Moscow performance was definitely a more elaborate performance.

The prima ballerina was a very beautiful girl of eighteen. When I asked how much ballet training she had had she said that she began going to ballet school at nine and finished when she was sixteen. She said that talented girls and boys are sent to special schools at a young age. These schools are free and are combined with regular academic studies.

We saw innumerable bookstores and book kiosks in the Soviet Union. Our hotels had bookstalls, and there were two within a block of our hotel in Moscow. There was hardly a block in the central districts of the cities we visited which did not have a bookstore.

The bookshops had a wide selection of books. Marxist writings and literal y classics from many countries were prominently displayed in the windows. The larger stores also had a wide selection of technical, scientific, art and music books.

The most popular Russian writers, we discovered, were Tolstoi, Pushkin, Gorky, Gogol, and Turgenyev. Dostoievsky, the Russian writer who was most familiar to us, was not as highly regarded by the students with whom we spoke.

tember. He was very upset that the students from Kiev University had been described as “bobby Soxers.”

Fortunately I had read the account, also. I remembered that Dan Berger, editor of the Oberlin College Review, had stated in the Times, that the Kiev University students “flocked around him like bobby-soxers.” I explained that Berger was not calling the students “bobby - soxers,” but was using the term to describe the large number of students who had come up to him during his visit to Kiev University.

.Whirlwind American tarries

During my stop in Kiev, I decided to buy some records. My guide took me to a newly built group of stores. The record shop was very crowded, but the guide explained to the clerk that I was an American and naturally in a hurry. We monopolized the clerk for over an hour during which time I spent 165 rubles, or about $41.

My main purchase was an al RESTRING WITH

STANDS UP in your racket

• Moisture Immune • Lasting Liveliness

ASHAWAY BRAIDED RACKETSTRING . Choice of The Champions

STANDS OUT in play

<• Harder Smashes 9 Better Cut and Spin

COSTS LESS than gut

APPROX. STRINGING COST: Fro-Fected Braid.. $6.00 (Multi-Ply Braid.$5.00

At tennis shops and sporting goods stores.

fa 6e<M&ft/// fap/w/fa//fa a Z/wy// fa Z?/>eifro/e Zb

DELRAY" CLUB COUPE m¥6 rife yea^ b/y^b^^ri Ae^ /(tea /b /hrie^b^/

MORE PEOPLE BUY CHEVROLETS THAN ANY OTHER CARI

This Delray Club Coupe combines all the colorful smartness of a sport model with an interior that's designed for everyday family use. Seats, sidewalls, even the headlining, are all of soft, lustrous vinyl in color treatments that harmonize with the exterior color of your choice.

And this new interior is just as durable and practical as it is beautiful. The vinyl is easily washable and amazingly resistant to scuffing and wear. You don’t have to worry about little feet on the seats or the things that little hands might spill. And for grown-ups, here at last is a coupe that provides all the bet ween-scat knee-room of a 2-door sedan! The Delray Club Coupe is only one of the wonderful new Chevrolet models that make up the lowest-priced line in the low-price field. Come in and look them over.

CHEVROLET

SEE YOUR CHEVROLET DEALER FOR ALL YOUR AUTOMOTIVE NEEDS!

Conveniently listed under "Automobiles” in your local classified telephone directory February 19, 1954

Statute,college enrollment

The Collegiate Scene

factors in college releases

A University of Chicago statute and falling college enrollment were sharply underlined last week by news of the release at the end of the spring quarter, of Fritz Caspari and Henry Rago, assistant professors in the College.

Statute number 13 prescribes that an assistant professorship is a temporary appointment. An assistant professor may

be appointed for two terms of three years, under the statute. By the end of that time the assistant professor must have been promoted to an associate professorship. If he has not been promoted, either because of lack of ability or of open professorships, he is released by the university. Associate professors have “indefinite appointments,” and tenure.

A similar arrangement exists for instructors. They have four years in which to rise to assistant professorships.

The statute further provides that decisions on an assistant professor’s status be made in the fall of the academic year which ends his contract. If not promoted he is notified by December 15.

“The operation of the statute may create inconvenience and hardship at particular times,” commented Robert F. Streeter, newly appointed dean of the college, “but the statutory provision is designed to insure, in the long run, the quality of the University faculty.”

Streeter said that the decisions on professorial appointments were

not routine. They are, he said, “excruciatingly difficult.”

He denied that the college staff was being cut. The ratio of faculty members to students is better than it was last year. But, he said, that there must be some relation between the size of the faculty and the size of the student body. He emphasized, however, that while enrollment was certainly a factor, it was hardly the only factor.

 faculty full-time student student equiva- enroll- faculty lents* ment ratio 1953 74 1063 14.36 1952 91 1350 14.76 1951 114* 1601 14.07 1949 129 1930 14.81 1947*” 155 2603 17.71 "Many members of the college

(toff divide their time between the college and other units of the University; hence, the number in this column doesn't represent directly the number of college staff members.

**1947 was the year of peak enrollment in the years following the war.

Harper investigated

Students to go to USSR

. Swarthmore College s East-West Club seems to be leading collegiate America in consideration of summer trips for students to the Soviet Union. In answer to a Swarthmore questionnaire asking about plans or interest in sending students to the USSR 10 eastern schools replied that while no plans had been made there existed a good deal of interest in planing inter-collegiate trips to Russia. A City College of New York campus-wide student referendum showed 75.8 per cent of the student body in favor. The East-West Club of Swarthmore in cooperation

with Swarthmore Student Council is going ahead with inquiries aqd plans with the hope of sending a group of students to Russia this summer.

Draft hints

North Carolina’s Daily Tar Heel recently advertised a book for the Zota Press, New Haven, Connecticut, “ins The “all

which professed to give the and outs of the draft law.” book contained chapters on disqualifying physical and

mental defects, what is limited service, and who is eligible for it, all 47 exemptions and deferments, student rights, how to deal with local boards, appeals, medical examiners, little hints that make a difference, how to get a discharge from service, etc.” When the managing editor of the Tar Heel telegraphed for a copy he was informed by the publishers that, “Our advertising campaign had such an unexpected large response, that we completely exhausted our first printing ” Needless to say many indignant letters were sent to the editors of the newspaper denouncing the company that printed the book and the paper for advertising it.

Those in favor of bigger, better and more “scientific” football at Kansas University are rejoicing over the appointment of Charles Mather as head football coach. Mather gained a spectacular record at Massillon (Ohio) high school with the aid of such innovations as having a TV set beside him on the bench so he could gain a better perspective of his team. Another technique used by Mather is to study motion pictures of the games after which he and his staff grade each member as to his game performance on IBM cards. The cards are then processed through machines to record each player’s proficiency. I wonder what Stagg has to say about all this.

TV registers

Modern design is also making the big difference over at Chicago Teachers College. The staff of the Audio-Visual Center of that school took time out from their duties of

in the registering of day students. By means of closedcircuit television a communications system was instituted that eliminated waiting in line and programming mistakes which formerly resulted from the time lag caused by ordinary communications.

Don't wreck necking

The dormitory council at ihe University of Houston issued the following regulations governing social conduct on campus:

“1.

“2.

“3.

Area outside of ‘D’ and 'E* dorm reception rooms approved for goodnight kisses only.

Cullen boulevard side of D’ dorm, recommended.

Cars in dorm parking lot only if we can see your heads showing over the seats.

instructing audio-visual help in the istration. A

the teachers-to-be in aids to teaching to spring semester regcoaxial cable was set

up to run from the Audio-Visual Center to the two rooms utilized

found treasure trove

first editions, Lincolniana, incunabula here

by Horry Whiteley

When many people think about libraries, librarians and quanities of books generally, they picture dusty shelves and musty librarians, balding students bent over formidable books Harper boasts a modern poetry collection, modern poetry

But this is not a true picture of UC’s library, or of its staff, and bowed scholars peering at obscure manuscripts, records, many of which are recording made by the poets themselves; a microfilm reading room, where prominent newspapers

dating from the middle of the last century up to the present day can be read; a collection of Lincolniana, including some of Lincoln’s personal books, (and his mother’s kitchen cabinet), a collection made by Dr. Barton and purchased after his death by the library. It also includes a collection of rare books including over 160 volumes of incunabula, the first books printed in the 50 years after the invention of printing, from about 1450 to 1500.

All of the facilities are available to students carrying at least one college or division course. The library is open from 9 a.m. to 10 p.m. The micro film reading room is open at the same time, but is closed from 6 p.m. to 7 p.m. The Harriet Monroe Modern Poetry room is open from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.

This many faceted organization began in 1891 when William R. Harper, first president ‘of the University, bought the entire contents of an antiquated bookshop in Berlin. These books, some 240,000 volumes, became in 1883 the foundation of the University’s library. Since that time the library has grown rapidly, and has become one of the largest university libraries in the country.

The library system today contains 2,000,000 volumes, 1,000,000 of which are in the Harper-Wieboldt-Classics complex, and the other 1,000,000 are in the thirteen departmental libraries on campus, each one in itself a sizeable unit.

Its growth was so rapid that by 1947 the University had to revive a plan, the origin of which

Student Special

SEVEN MONTHS TO PAY FOR

NEW PORTABLE TYPEWRITER

has been lost, which would, if executed, accommodate the further expansion, not only of Chicago’s library but also of fifteen other midwestern university libraries. From the combined efforts of these universities, came the Midwest Inter-Library Center.

This unique institute, the first in the country, enables member libraries to avoid duplication in keeping or purchasing little used reference books, and clears much needed space for the accommodation of the rapidly growing wealth of books. Twelve of the fifteen members use teletype to communicate with the center.

Poetry collection impressive

Perhaps the most interesting of the facilities within the Harper library is the Hariet Monroe Modern Poetry Collection which is housed in Harper W62 (West Tower).This collection was willed to the University by Harriet Monroe, founder and editor of Poetry: A Magazine of Verse, and was accepted in 1938. The original collection contained about 2,350 books—volumes of verse, criticism, and anthologies, most of which were review copies sent to the magazine since its beginning in 1912. Nearly all were first editions, and some were inscribed by the authors. These books are for the most part those which were

considered worth reviewing in Poetry and worth keeping on the shelves in the office. They represent only a minor proportion of the number of volumes sent in; the collection is therefore a selective one, reflecting the critical standards of the magazine.

Inscribed first editions available

There are a good many rare and valuable items. For example: The first edition of General Williams Booth Enters Into Heaven and Other Poems by Vachel Lindsay, inscribed as follows:

“To my good and very loyal friend, Harriet Mon^e, with particular thanks for the goodness of March 1, 1914, the friendship of many of the godly, including W. B. Yeats, and the general, elaborate goodness of her heart. Nicholas Vachel Lindsay.” Inscribed first editions of Smoke and Steel, by Carl Sandburg, of Birds, Beasts, and Flowers, by D. H. Lawrence, and of Renascence, by Edna St. Vincent Millay are to be found there.

The collection also included first editions of the rare Three Stories an d Ten Poems, by Ernest Hemingway, issued in Paris in 1923, and of On Heaven and Other Poems, by Ford Mdox Ford; the first Paris edition of Hart Crane’s The Bridge; first editions of Archibald Mac Leish’s three earliest

see "Harper,'' page 12

“All other areas are taboo. Don’t go about wrecking the necking by using the taboo areas.” Birenbaum favors Soviet exchange

A letter, concerning possible exchange with students of the Soviet Union, was sent to James Edwards, president of the National Students Association, by William Birenbaum, Director of Students Activities. The letter asked that investigations be made about the possibility of having Soviet students take trips in the United State, similar to the ones taken by the U. S. student editors in the Soviet Union. Inquiries would be made of the proper Soviet and American authorities.

“I’d see nothing wrong in trips of this nature,” said Birenbaum, when questioned, “with qualified Soviet students, visiting the United States, and I think it would be even better if qualified Soviet students would be permitted to study at a University in the United States. If one believes in the idea of international exchange and the free flow of ideas, this idea should be logical to them. I see nothing subversive in this idea. If we believe in ourselves, we shouldn’t be afraid to let others see us as we are.”

A recent article, published in the Sun-Times of February 17th, stated that the United States is permitting Soviet skier, Yuri Sergeevich Afanasev and an interpreter to come here this week for an international ski meet in Ishpeming, Michigan. There will be no “rigid” restrictions placed on his movements. The United States also seems ready to let a Russian track team come to the United States for meets in several American cities and a chess team to enter this country for a tournament in New York.

In reference to this piece of information, Birenbaum said that if they let Soviet athletes enter the United States, they should certainly permit Soviet students to enter. '

Rent It For Three Months

Apply Rental Paid to Purchase Price

Call Mr. Gerson — Extension 3317

or come in and talk to him

UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO

BOOKSTORE

5802 Ellis Avenue

Here’s the Answer

To Your Loundry Problem

2-Hour Laundry Service 2-Day Shirt Service 1-Day Cleaning Service

Open every evening until 9 eeloek Sundays 9 9til 4

Hyde Park Self-Service Laundry

912 E. 55th

i h0 ', WITH l STOp~

AND MEET THE PEOPLE OF

MEXICO

weeks Summer Settle* at U. efi ixks # • • week end excursions.

STOP TOURS, Berkeley, Calif.

RECORDS

10" LP

79c

12" LP....98c & $1.89

45 RPM

Ya price

Hermans

935 E. 55th St.

Open Thurs., Til 9 Page 8

THE CHICAGO MAROON

February 19, 1954

Anne Revere

Playwrights Theatre to produce Eliot play

With T. S. Eliot’s Murder in the Cathedral, which opens Wednesday night, Playwrights Theatre Club at 1560 N. La Salle is continuing its experimentation with varied forms of significant drama. According to Playwrights, the play is “a drama of internal conflict about the efforts of Thomas a Becket to do the right deed for the ‘right’ reason in attaining martyrdom.”

Eliot, in 1935, when Murder in the Cathedral was written, had developed a mature style. After the play’s first production and the production, some years later, of the controversial Cocktail Party, Eliot was recognized to

Eugene Troobnick, as a tempter •f Thomas a Becket.

be as accomplished a dramatist as he is a poet. Playwrights has felt that now, in view7 of the current success of Eliot’s newest play, The Confidential Clerk, would be an appropriate time for the revival of his first play, already a classic of its kind.

The play tells of Thomas a Becket, Archbishop of Canterbury in the twelfth century

during the waning of the Norman conquest and describes his murder by agents of the Crown

'Sholom Aleichem' breath of fresh air

Saturday night marks the 200th performance of the New York production of the World of Sholom Aleichem. A second company, now appearing in Chicago at the Eleventh St. Theatre with Howard Da Silva, Anne Revere, and Jacob Ben-Ami, has been formed for a national tour — an extraordinary development for off-Broadway theatre.. What is the appeal of “Sholom Aleichem”?

Sholom Aleichem’s world is a place where humanism is unashamedly championed. “For

while wisdom is no substitute for a piece of herring, a house with only fish is not a home.” The culture of an oppressed folk finds at least three modes in which it expresses its aspirations, because, as it develops, it is increasingly threatened with destruction. The World of Sholom Aleichem represents these three

in the interest of national autonomy and reduction of church absolutism. Written in the form of a Greek drama — complete with a chorus from the plebiscite, it differs from most Greek drama in that it concentrates on the internal struggles and eulogizes the mortal ideals of a single person, Thomas, the representative of the Church.

For their production, Playwrights has done extensive research enabling them to reproduce the Medieval setting, that of Ivanhoe on the one hand and Robin Hood on the other, of the play. Problems of historical and religious accuracy have been handled by Crieghton Clark and Alan Mc Pherron, both of whom have studied at Anglican colleges.

The set design and lighting is the work of Arthur Knight, a former Art Institute student whose work has recently received recognition in a national publication.

Marvin Peisner, who has been seen in leading roles in previous Playwrights productions and wno has acted and directed plays with University Theatre and Tonight at Eight-thirty, will direct the production. His cast, selected from the leading players of the company, includes Edward Asner as Thomas; Eugene Troobnick, Thomas Earhart, Alex Horn, and Paul Sills as the four tempters; and Zohra Alton, Jo Trites, Ann Petry, and Elaine May (who will direct Playwrights next production, Miss Julia) as the chorus of women of Canterbury.

Performances are Wednesdays through Sundays at 8:40 p.m. For reservations call WH 3-2272.

modes through three stories selected from Jewish literature.

The stories are presented with a conscious understanding of the social role of fancy, illusion and reality in folk expression.

One can, of course, laugh at reality and ignore its essential character. This is the wisdom of a people that laughs at itself with a mouth that tastes of sorrow. Such is the humor of the first story “The Town of Chelm,” the town of Beloved Fools. But laughter, unless it deepens, is only an experience that may easily become acrid to the taste. The world of Sholom Aleichem is the living tradition of the Maccabees, not of Mickey Katz.

The second story, the tale of Bonche Schweig, by Peretz, is a classic of the Jewish folk literature. It is the dream of heaven and the criticism of that

dream. It tells of

man

who suffers in silence, is offered all Paradise in reward and asks only, “Please, if eveiy morning I could have a hot roll with a piece of butter on it.” To Bonche

Fresh out of school, Bob Wilson, *53, was put to work on a Transistor project at Bell Laboratories. He explains why he never had time to be awed.

(Reading Time: 39 seconds)

Bob Wilson works on a “breadboard” circuit, studying the electrical properties of a carrier system.

Sweig, nothing is all. Yet, man is created in the image of God, not the ox hi the field whose vision is a clump of grass and a few hummocks of dirt. Seeing the condition of Bonche the angels bow their heads in human shame!

If the Jews laugh and dream, they must also struggle. “Gymnasium,” the High School, by Sholom Aleichem is set in Czarist Russia and is one family’s answer to the quota system. In contrast to the other two stories where fancy and illusion are the predominating moods, realism dominates and forcefully projects life into the theatre.

The son of Aaron Katz, the grocer, has become determined to eifter the Gymnasium. In a wealth of descriptive material Sholom Aleichem lays bare the social antagonisms which give rise to Aaron’s “troubles.” Must a man stand erect and suffer or live “cautiously and quietly”— on his knees? To put the question is to answer it.

One should point out that very

A CAMPUS-TO-CAREER CASE HISTORY

art

0$^

Jacob Ben-Ami

little of what is said in the Jewish folk literature is said explicitly. A culture, like the Negro, th? Indian, the Mexican, developing under conditions of deliberate attack can hardly afford the luxury of “liberty.” Hence while its content remains profound for all people it takes on those characteristics—deepened shadings and forms which are the creation of the specific experience of the Jewish people and require a special use of intelligence to handle and make meaningful.

This reviewer prefers to leave the discussion of the specific

See “Sholom/' page 9

International House Movie Program

Monday, February 22—THE WELL DIGGER'S DAUGHTER (French) Assembly Hall, 8:00 P.M. Admission 50c.

Thursday, February 25—OLIVER TWIST (English) East Lounge, 7:00 P.M. and 9:00 P.M. Admission 35c • Bravo! Encore! ;

► We Had to Hold You Over, Mr. Guinness, ‘

* That's Why We're Again Presenting ]

► The Lavender Hill Mob and I

► The Man in the White Suit J

; Coming Next Friday — Feb. 26. All on one great film program— ‘ ► Annapurna, Little Fugitive; and the UPA cartoons—Edgar Allan Poe's < * The Tell-Tale Heart and James Thurber's A Unicorn in the Garden. *

: NO 7-9071 HYDE PARK THEATRE PA^d PAKK J

[ Student Rate 50c All Performances J

 

after the Wash Prom Alexander^

1137 East 63rd Street

“In some ways it was hard to believe. I had received my B.E.E. at the University of Delaware in June, 1953, and a week later I was working in the worldfamous Bell Laboratories.

“But I didn’t have time to be awed because they put me right to work. They gave me responsibility fast.

“My group was working on the experimental application of transistors to carrier systems. My assignment was the electrical design of a variolosser for the compressor and for the expandor to be located in the terminals.

“The supervision I received and the equipment I had were tops. I quickly discovered that I had to rely on my ingenuity as much as on the college courses I had taken. Perhaps that’s one reason for the

great new discoveries continually turned out by the Labs.

“Now, I’m in the Communication Development Training Program, continuing my technical education and learning what all the Laboratories sections do and how. their work is integrated.

“In a year I’ll be back working with the group with which I started.”

• • •

Assuming responsibility fast is a common experience among the engineering, physical science, arts and social science, and business administration graduates who join the Bell System. Bob Wilson went with Bell Laboratories. There also are job opportunities with the operating telephone companies, Western Electric and Sandia Corporation.

BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM February 19, 1954

THE CHICAGO MAROON

Page 9

Bloch displays instrumental variety

Discusses instr tint en ts; pieces not worth effort

Suzanne Bloch, who sings, plays the lute, recorder, and virginal presented what one might call for want of a better name a last Friday.

She plays the lute competently, it seemed, though I could really not hear this extremely soft-toned instrument in Mandel Hall. Her t ecorder playing was perfunctory, and marked by poor intonation, lack of rhythm and poor tone with frequently audible overtones. As the performer herself pointed out, she has an untrained .voice. Her virginal playing was unspectacular.

What remained was a pseudomnsicological lecture on the instruments and works performed accompanied by a good deal of insipid and often inaudible gabbing. The general level of musieologicai commentary was something like, “Back in the days of the Renaissance, before people had radio and TV, they had to make their own entertainment.’’

In addition to some charming, but none the less monotonous old music, Miss Bloch lifted a few lines of Bach from the St. John’s Passion, a gigue from a Bach Suite, and a movement from a Handel flute sonata, performing all of them as lost children who st t ax ed away from medieval monotony, and are undeserving of careful playing.

Even though her voice is not of top quality, she was wonderfully imaginative in her singing of some delightful folk songs, and would have done well to include more of these on the program.

I can only ask why anyone botheied to present this program. Time was when the University concert series included the Budapest Quartet doing a complete cycle of late Beethoven, Istomin and Schneider playing all the Beethoven violin sonatas, Kirkpatrick playing Scarlatti, the New Music Quartet playing Purcell, Bartok, etc., or Schneider, Bach. Apparently this is not sufficiently esoteric.

Fred Winsberg

by Robert Bloch

Last Friday, with the title of “Lutenist, Singer to the Lute, Player of Virginals, Recorders,” Suzanne Bloch, daughter of the composer Ernest Bloch, gave a program of little heard music in Mandel Hall. The lute is a plucked instrument of the mandolin type, which, it has been said, the player spends half his life tuning. Lutes had sometimes as many as 26 strings, which were tuned in pairs, like

the mandolin. Although very rare nowadays, it was once as much a household instrument as the piano is now, and a great deal of music was written for it, mostly in the “tablature” style of notation. It is a very soft instrument, and therefore not too suited for concert hall performance, which may be one reason it fell out of fashion.

The recorder, a whistle-mouthpiece precursor of the flute, is much commoner today. The pieces on the program were played without accompaniment, giving only a general idea of the music.

To hear a movement of a Handel sonata on it makes it evident why it was replaced by the more modern wind instruments. It has a rather hollow tone quality, dubious intonation and a limited power of expression, all of which are not very well made up for by a certain quaintness of sound. With the exception of the Handel, however, which sounded distinctly unsuited to the instrument, the pieces on the program illustrate the technical aspects of the instrument very well.

The virginal is a keyboard instrument with plucked strings, similar to the harpsichord, only

smaller, softer and with a smaller range. The pieces Miss Bloch played on it included a very interesting set of variations by William Byrd on the Hexachord of ut-re-mi, ut being the old name for do; that is, the player sings a scale on the syllables ut (Ut pronounced approximately as in French), re, mi, etc. up to la, and then back down to ut. This is sung a number of times against varying accompaniments on the virginal.

The last group included a number of songs with lute accompaniment. These were all of the character of folk songs, and in them the delicate and unobstrusive qualities of the instrument were shown to the greatest advantage.

Press to print Eby, Mc Keon

The University of Chicago Press has announced the following books by UC faculty members to be released during the winter and spring: The Poetry of Dylan Thomas by Elder Olsen; The God in You by Kermit Eby; Capitalism and the Historians; edited by F. A. Hayek; Past and Future by William H. Mc Neill; and Thought, Action, and Passion by Richard P. Mc Keon.

The Columbia University Press will publish The Proustian Vision, by Milton Hindus, formerly of the UC faculty.

These books will be reviewed in subsequent issues of the MAROON, as will American Labor from Defense to Reconstruction by Joel Seidman and Higher Education and the Human Spirit by Bernard Meland, both of which were issued during the autumn by the UC Press.

Latest 'Review7 completed; displays varied selections

The Winter-Spring issue of the CHICAGO REVIEW, on sale Monday, features the poetry of Marianne Moore and Reuel Denney and essays by David Riesman and Leo Strauss. The Moore poems are two translations from the fables of La Fontaine, The Wolf Plays Shepherd and Digger and Partner. Reuel Denney presents A Criticism of Sculpture and Affection for a Countryside. Freud, u i r A o r v r

Religion, and Science is the H I C A U? k J K b V I b W subject of David Riesman’s ^nter • swing wm • vol • no i

Renaissance Society beginning exhibition of a selection of modern pottery in Qoodspeed

The Renaissance Society is currently exhibiting “A Selection of Modern Pottery” to run in the Goodspeed Hall galleries until March 3, 1954. Eighty pieces of pottery by 27 professional potters of the United States and England are represented.

The exhibit contains a wide variety of pottery, much of it incidentally representative of contemporary work in the craft. A definite effort to emphasize high-fire ware, is being made by the society. And this is justifiable — in stoneware and porcelain the finest inherent qualities of pottery are achievable and offer the greatest challenge to the potter’s ability. The selections are excellent. Most of the shapes are careful variation of traditional ones and often the glazes are equally subtle and

conservative. However there do occur, though not in combination, a few fire bodies, flash and glassy glazes, or meaningless shapes for lighter tastes.

Particularly commendable are

Bach To Broadway

$. HUROK presents

BROADWAY'S HIT DANCES

the Natzlers (though their best is not exhibited) for shape and color; the work of King for glaze; and of Scheier for ambition. A coredon coffee pot by Helen Reifler and a stone bowl by Charlotte Aronson are perhaps the finest in the collection. A stoneware potter's pot by Patriarch Bernard Leach evokes investigation and reflection.

The show is the first of its sort on campus in recent years. The pieces are well displayed and offer informative texts written by William Tanon, UC instructor in pottery. The exhibit displays a thoughtful selection, the study of which will stimulate intelligent interest and develop critical faculty of the craft.

Seymour Howard

essay and Leo Strauss has written a note on his book, Natural Right and History.

The magazine is composed of four sections: poetry, essays, fiction, and reviews; the division page of each section is illustrated with a lithograph from a series of fauns by Pablo Picasso. (The titles of the lithographs may or may not be related to the contents of the various sections.)

The poetry section also includes Phoenix, one of a cycle of Fiske prize poems by Michael Girsdansky, and Crystal by Jane W. Stedman, who holds a Carnegie Teaching Fellowship in the College. The remainder of the essay section is devoted to a piece on Wallace Stevens’ Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird by W. R. Keast, a professor of English at Cornell University and a criticism by Elliott M. Schrero, Ph. D. candidate in the English Department, of Keats’ Ode on a Grecian Urn. The fiction section centers about Jeffery, a chapter from the Rite, a novel by local writer Arthur Castillo. Taken up in the review section are Language as Gesture by Richard P. Blackmur, The Younger American Scholar by Robert H. Knapp and Joseph J. Greenbaum, and Songs for a New America by Charles G. Bell.

7 PM Ckck

• T*e )tfl^ The Ml Shop

>0 ... o Terrible Stott of Cheris; Of Morey

>2 the Movonttnt of (bt Child Within Her

99 Jeffrey

•117 Sengs for a 120 Nev Boehl

i from page 8)

aspects of the production to the reader. Suffice it to say that

Arnold Perle’s adaptation the music of Serge Hovey the work of craftsmen, work of Jacob Ben-Ami

and are The and

 

Anne Revere needs no comment. Under the direction of Howard Da Silva the production has given to an audience what is still the living truth in tradition. In a country whose democratic and humaniist traditions are being replaced by forgeries —by the sadism and cynicism of the Spillanes—a little honesty

COMEDY! SONGS! BAUCIS!

"AN INTIMATE REVUE. AUDIENCES ARE

WELL ENTERTAINED!"

—Time Magazine

Prices: $4.20, 3.60, 3.00,

2.40, 1.80

OPERA HOUSE

Feb. 19, 20, 21 (mat. Sunday)

On Sale Monday

The

CHICAGO

REVIEW

MARIANNE MOORE

REUEL DENNEY

DAVID RIESMAN

LEO STAUSS

 

about the past is breeze toward the

like a fresh future.

R. R. J.

Pier lllini throw

Maroon wrestlers

Coach Allan Bates was the only Maroon winner last Friday as his wrestlers were pinned by a strong lllini team at Navy Pier. Chicago lost 27-3.

This week the Maroons travel to Rock Island to face Augustana and Western Illinois Teachers.

Eye Examinations

Visual Training

Dr. Kurt Rosenbaum

optometrist

1132 E. 55th Street HYde Park 3-8372 Page 10 THE CHICAGO MAROON February 19, 1954

JV eagers clinch league tittle

Wheaton defeated, 50'45, as Coach Stampf wins second consecutive private loop crown

Coach Joe Stampf’s JV basketballers clinched their second consecutive Private School League championship last Friday afternoon in Bartlett Gym.

The junior Maroons defeated Wheaton Academy, 50-45, to assure first place honors.

Wheaton had entered the contest tied with UC for the league leadership.

The Maroons took an early lead and never trailed. The half-time margin of 10 points was cut in the final quarters as Wheaton players rushed UC dribblers and repeatedly stole the ball.

But the Maroon chances were greatly increased by the large number of Wheaton fouls and by the excellent shooting of Mitch Walkins who accounted for over half of the Maroon score with his 26 points.

Todd forfeits game

The contest was the final game

While rink melts hockey club wins

Al Seiwood scored eight goals as the ice hockey club pummeled De Kalb on the melting ice beneath the North Stands last Saturday afternoon. The final score was Chicago 10, De Kalb 3.

Skating was hard in the unusually moderate weather. By the end of the contest the rink was transformed to a swimming pool and the skaters splashed through water and slush to advance the puck. Athletes to begin baseball practice ' Spring is officially here when thoughts begin to turn from basketball and winter sports toward the national pastime, basball.

Baseball players are already practicing during lunch hours in the Fieldhouse, unlimbering their winter muscles. Official practice begins March 1.

Coach Anderson has issued a proclamation inviting all potential Di Maggios to try-out for the varsity squad. Class sessions for hopeful players are being held Monday through Friday from 12 to 2 p.m. or from 3:30 to 5 p.m.

Wisconsin downs varsity gymnasts

Coach Bud Beyer’s gymnasts lost last Saturday to Wisconsin, 52-44. Herb Taylor won the sidehorse and high-bar events while Ron Graham tied for first on the trampoline Bob Herndon placed second in the trampoline competition.

Tomorrow the gymnasts travel to Evanston to face the North4 estern squad they defeated earlier in the season.

Letters...

solemn contract between the administration and the student body. The Code was violated by the University’s refusal to enforce the plan. At this point ISL rushed manfully to the battlements and raised a great trophy of compromice. They passed (on February 9) the Stein amendment which delays enforcement by derecognition of offending organizations, until fall of 1954 or perhaps even until 1956. By refusing to enforce the Code now the Dean is clearly shown not to be responsible for his word pledged to the government. Thus even eventual enforcement will depend on his mood, the pressures of the Board of Trustees and even perhaps on the weather. This is a sellout of the Michigan Plan. Moreover, It is an abdication of the scanty power of Student Government—a power which rested solely on the right to control recognition of student organizations. In effect, a Student Government no longer exists on the campus.

This was the position that SRP members found themselves in before the end of the meeting. A bill had been passed compromising the fight against discrimination (the platforms of both parties committed SG to this struggle). The same bill had effectively abdicated the rights and powers of SG. Enough has already been said about the authoritarian way the chair and the majority party cut off debate, insulated members and spectators and misinterpreted rules in Its frantic attempt to get the compromise through the Assembly.

If Mr. Lichtenstein and his cohorts would make the effort of reading the platform upon which our party was selected to SG they would discover that SRP is committed to fighting, not compromising discrimination. They would also discover that SPR is pledged to a strengthening, not an abdicating, of the autonomy of the Student Assembly. They would then realize that SRP had taken on February 9, the only action proper to it. Walking out was the most effective possible means by which to dramatize to the campus an offensive and undemocratic sellout.

Michael Kaufman

of the season for the junior Maroons. This week’s contest with Todd School had previously been forfeited in favor of UC.

Stampf has coached four championship teams with JV basketball here. The 1947 team brought Stampf his first victory, which he followed by leading the junior Maroons to the crown in 1951 and again in 1953. His team finished the current season with seven victories in eight contests.

U-High cheerleaders attend

An overflow crowd filled Bartlett Gym to cheer the Maroons to victory. Cheerleaders from University High led the rooting of t He

IN THE still of the night—high above a sleeping American city—an unidentified aircraft is spotted. In a matter of seconds a lightning-like jet interceptor takes to the air. Unerringly, with an Aircraft Observer showing the way, the Air Force F-94 Night Fighter speeds to intercept the stranger. The Aircraft Observer is the man behind the pilot —the officer who keeps America’s planes flying on course and on target. Without him the Air Force couldn’t do its job.

What is the Aircraft Observer?

He’s a Bombardment Officer... in full control of the plane over the target area ... the Air Force Oflicer who “lowers the boom” on the enemy.

What the Aircraft Observer gets

He earns over $5,000 a year. His silver Aircraft Observer wings give him prestige and distinction, and he wears the bars of an Air Force Lieutenant. They mark him as the eyes, ears, and brains of America's Number One flying team.

He’s a Radar Officer employing an all seeing eye that penetrates where human sight fails.

He's an Aircraft Performance Engineer Officer... knowing everything there is to know about his plane ... keeping it fit for the skies and ready for action.

He’s a Navigation Officer plotting his plane’s course ... with an entire crew depending on him for a safe flight

What it takes to be an Aircraft Observer

The Aircraft Observer must be sound of limb, keen of mind, and above all, must have the determination to be the best. To qualify as an Aircraft Observer you must be single, between 19 and 26|4 years old, and a high school graduate. However, it will be belter for you and the Air Force if you stay in college and graduate before you apply. Then you, too, can be one of the best... as an Aircraft Observer.

WHERE TO GET MORE DETAILS:

Contact your nearest Aviation Cadet Selection leans, Air Force ROTC Unit or Air Force Recruiting Officer. Or write to: Aviation Cadet, Headquarters, U. S. Air Force, Washington 25, D. C.

jubilant throngs in cheering each Maroon basket and in booing the referee’s decisions.

A large contingent of Wheaton followers also attended, naving been conveyed to campus in several school buses.

In the curtain raiser Friday, the junior juniors, the Frosh-soph team from U-High lost to the Wheaton Frosh-sophs, 51-31.

Maroons (50) Wheaton (45)

Watkins 11 4 3 Palmer 5 3 2

Wasserman 115 Johnson 2 0 2

Shako# 0 0 1 Ericson 0 0 1

Jones 111 Mc Kellin 574

Small 16 2 Adolph 3 0 5

Hodes 2 6 0 Beveridge 115

Harper 102

MAROONS 16 15 10 9—50

WHEATON 11 10 11 13—45

SPORTS EVENTS THIS WEEK

Today Basketball Elmhurst 8:00 Field-House Tomorrow Track Loyola, Bradley and Northwestern 2:00 Field-House Swimming Washington 2:00 Bartlett Pool Monday & Tuesday JV Basketball Private School League Prelims 7:00 Field-House

Phi Psi, Coulter win intramurals

Phi Kappa Psi fraternity copped the intramural basketball championship witlfan 8-0 record for the year. Zeta Beta Tau was a close second with 7-1 in the fraternity competition.

Coulter house, although it lost its final game of the year to Linn, took first place honors in the college division with an 8-2 total.

The divisional championship was being decided as the MAROON went to press.

St. Louis drowns UC swimmers

St. Louis drenched the swimming Maroons last Saturday 57-26 in Bartlett Pool. Chicago took the 300 yd. medley relay and Roy Porterfield won the 200 yd. freest roke. Bob Geidt was victor in the 200 yd. backstroke.

The final dual meet for varsity swimmers will be held tomorrow in Bartlett Pool when Maroon swimmers face Washington University. February 19, 1954

THE CHICAGO MAROON

Page 11

Maroon eagers fall as Pier, Teachers

score 30 point wins

by Richard Herwitt

The Chicago eagers were taken down to inglorious defeat at the hands of two excellent quintets this week. Last Saturday, the lllini of Navy Pier trounced the Maroons, 80-51; and Wednesday, the men from UC were taken by Chicago Teachers College to the tune of 87-53.

Apparently feeling at home for the first time this season

in a game away from the Field-House, the Maroons jumped to an early lead against the Pier. The score showed a 15-12 advantage at the first quarter. But the lllini recovered from their shock and promptly ran the half-time tally to 38-24. After that they pulled away at a steady pace.

Lester cuts Pier score

Laurels for the Pier game go to Maroon guard Bill Lester who, despite a height disadvantage, managed to keep Illinois’ highscoring ace, Gary Viner, to eight points. Bob Mann led the Maroon scoring with 17 points, with runner-up Dave Smith accounting for eight.

In the Teachers game the Marons were scored upon just after the initial center jump and never really threatened to tie the game. The Teachers squad calmly pounded away at the basket while Chicago fought for every point it got. At half-time the visitors had as many markers as the Maroons had at the end of the game.

Lester turns in good job

Again Lester turned in a beautiful job of guarding Willie Jones, the deadly center of Chicago Teachers, while Dick Homer held another fine shooter to a bare minimum of points. Helmar Ringstrom of Teachers led all scorers with 23 points, while the Maroons were again paced in the scoring column by Smith and Mann who tallied 18 and 14 respectively.

Tomorrow night the eagers play their last home game of the season against Elmhurst College.

Photo by Joe Wolf

Frank Loomos, the Maroon's star hurler

Track records fall

as Maroons defeat

Wheaton and Wayne

by Justin Johnson 

The Varsity Track team ran their season’s total to five victories against only one loss by winning a double-dual meet last Saturday at the Fieldhouse, defeating Wheaton College 67 2-3 to 36 1-3 and Wayne University 80 to 24.

Chicago won eight of the 12 events against Wheaton and took all but the high jump and broad jump against Wayne.

Frank Loomos set new meet

MAROONS

Smith Mann Garcia Lonergan Hubbard Homer Lester Walker Colby

MAROONS TEACHERS

NEA REPORT

Bradley, Loyola and Northwestern will invade the Fieldhouse Saturday for a quadrangular meet with the Varsity in what looks to be one of the best meets of the indoor season.

Harold Moore named to board of trustees

Harold A. Moore, senior vicepresident of the Chicago Title and Trust Co., was elected a member of the board of trustees of UC, it was announced Monday.

Moores activities with the University include work with the Citizens Board and Alumni Foundation. In the community, Moore is on the executive committee of the Community Fund of Chicago, Inc., a director of the Welfare Council of Metropolitan Chicago and the United Service Organization, and a member of the board of the Salvation Army.

Greens Beeves records of :06.4 in the 60-yd. dash and :08.0 in the 70-yd. low hurdles. Walt Deike set a new meet standard in, the two-mile run against Wayne, running 9:42.0. George Mc Cormick tied the 880 record against Wayne in 1:58.3. The relay team of Loomos, Johnson, Morgan Damerow, and Mc Cormick set a new mile-relay mark in the Wayne meet.

JV team places second

In the course of being thoroughly defeated by Dunbar Trade School last Thursday, the JV runners edged out an old rival, Lane Tech, in a triangular meet at the

Fencers defeated in two contest

Maroon fencers dropped two matches last Saturday by identical scores. Facing Wisconsin and Detroit teams in Madison, the fencers lost 15-12.

Chicago won the epee competition 6-3 against both teams, but lost in the foil and sabre matches to both squads. Alex Shane made the best showing for the Maroons, winning both his epee contests.

Fieldhouse. Final score was bar 51, University 31, Lane 24.

Winners on the JV team

Dun Tech

(87) 3
o o
o

o । 0
o : 5
i o
o

(53) i 8 > 4 I 0 I 0 I 2 ) 2 ! 1 ) 0

0

5 5

o o

2 o

2 2

0 3

1 2

1 0
0

12

28

TEACHERS

Rlngstr'm Hennessy Lecos Schultz Donahue Jones Lyden O’Farrell Reilly Snyder Moscato

18

25

7

22

io

5

1

2

1

8

1

4

3

1

3

3 1

2 0

4 2

1 3

1 1

16—53

12—87

Educators condemn trend

toward big competition

The National Education Association charged last week that emphasis on bigtime sports has become so exaggerated that even grade-school boys are feeling the pressure.

In strong terms the association condemned the injection of high-powered competition, promotion and commercialism into school athletic programs.

Traces of professional baseball’s farm system pervade athletic programs from the college as far

down as charged.

Unless checked,

junior high school level, the NEA

were

Mike Chernoff in the pole-vault, Chuck Youse in the shot-put and Dick Scupi in the 880. Captain Jim Brown scored second in the highhurdles, 440 and the high jump. Paul Rozin picked up a second in the 880, while Dave Northrop was placing third in the pole-vault. John Saada finished third in the mile.

(from page 9)

Miss Bloch told how musicologists had shattered her romantic notions about the song “Greensleeves” by explaining that the title refers to the green sleeves worn by streetwalkers in order to avoid grass stains. The words of the ballad make this rather plausible:

Thy gown was of the grassy green, Thy sleeves of satin hanging by, Which made thee be our harvest queen, And yet thou wouldnst not love me. Greensleeves was all my joy, Greensleeves was my delight;

Greensleeves was my heart of gold, And who but Lady Greensleeves?”

Or earlier:

I bought the kerchiefs for thy head That were wrought fine and gallantly; I kept thee both at board and bed, Which cost my purse well favorably.

Greensleeves was all my joy, etc.

< from page 1)

series on means of achieving world peace, which is being sponsored by the International House Education Committee. Others have been scheduled for the next three Wednesday evenings, at 8 p.m. in the East Lounge of Int. House.

List future talks

On Feb. 24 — “Peace through Armaments: A Military Man Views the Problem of Peace,” by Capt. Willard Chambers, Fifth Army; on March 3—“East-West Trade: Road to Peace or Appeasement?”; and on March 10—“The UN: Propaganda Weapon or Means of Achieving World Peace?” by Quincy Wright, professor of political science.

causes students who are not athletically inclined to suffer a loss of face among their classmates.

Recruiting pressure begins with professional interest in college players and is passed from the colleges to the high schools, which in turn start grooming players in junior high schools, the report continued.

Business lure young athletes

The present trend is to lure 8- to 12-year-old boys into hignly-organized sports. Unfortunately, this pressure is outside the jurisdiction of the schools, being brought from such places as adult organizations and business firms.

“Interest in some colleges in recruiting high school athletes leads to many abuses,” the report charged, condemning the prevalent practice of the free trips to college campuses, elaborate entertainments, phoney tryouts and financial inducements which many schools utilize to gain athletes for their teams.

The commission concluded with the following recommendations:

1) Eliminate highly organized competition in the form of leagues and championships;

2) Eliminate the tournaments, frequent contests, long seasons and “little bowl games”;

3) Eliminate travel to games beyond the immediate neighborhood;

4) Eliminate the playing of games on other than school property.

“Athletic games in all cases should be played with the emphasis on fun, physical development, skill and strategy, social experience and good sportsmanship,” the report concluded.

MAROON STAFF PARTY Saturday, February 20, 9 p. m.

PHOTOGRAPHERS

1171 EAST 55th STREET

this “alarming and unhappy trend” is they warned, the nation’s children can

WHERE THE U OF C MEETS TO EAT

set of 4 . . $ 5.95

WWrwt Crew-W it Ma't favorite h*ir tonic. K’s non alcoholic. Contains soothing lanolin. Grooms hair, relieves dryness, removes loose dandruff. Get Wildroot Cream-Oil, Charlie! Low as 29a

6.95

9.95

6" IO" 16" 28"

" 7.95

" 9.95

11.95

5216’/a Dexef

STAFF MEMBERS ONLY

Hermans

935 E 55th st.

Open thurs. til 9

BRASS LEGS

Corner mounting V-type

be cheated educationally and possibly injured physically and mentally.

NEA releases sports report

This condemnation was revealed in a 116-page report, “School Athletics: Problems and Policies,” prepared by the educational policies commission of the NEA and the American Association of School Administrators. It was released at the AASA convention in Atlantic City, New Jersey, last week.

The 18 educators and laymen who compose the commission urged schools to plan their athletic Program tp benefit all students. Athletic programs should be financed from school funds, rather than gate receipts, they said.

Coaches abandon good sportsmanship

“Stress on winning the game” pressures teachers into pampering skilled athletes, forces coaches to abandon principles of good sportsmanship and

MIDWAY 3-4433

FOOD

Selective Service bulletin

All eligible students who intend to take the Selective Service College Qualification test in 1954 should file applications at once for the April 22 administration, Selective Service National Headquarters advised today. .

An application and a bulletin of information may be obtained at any Selective Service local board. Following instructions in the bulletin the student should fill out his application immediately and mail it in the special envelope provided. Applications must be postmarked no later than midnight, March 8, 1954. Early filing will be greatly to the student's advantage.

Results will be reported to the student's Selective Service local board of jurisdiction for use in considering his deferment as a student, according to Educational Testing Service, which prepares and administers the College Qualification test.

I 12

I 21‘ THE CHICAGO MAROON

February 19, 1954

Classified...

&Mt4d ev&tte i*

For Sale

1946 Dodge club coupe, light blueclean. $300. Call DO 3-1751 after 4 p.m.

1940 Studenbaker in good running condition. New battery and tires. $55. MI 3-4058 after 6 p.m.

Maple furniture, china, glass, etc. Leaving city. For Information call weekdays CE 6-6372, evenings FA 4-8710.

pesk. $15; Knight amplifier, $15; Webster LP changer $10, hour spools of wire, $1.50 each. MU 4-4587.

Brand new Remington razor. Retails over $30. Bargain, $20. Call BO 8-4036 after 8:30 p.m. 

Personals

Want OMP offered this summer? Fill out petition in Dean Davey’s office before March 1.

Wanted

Student wants small, cheap garage, near campus. Paul Wenger, 5747 University, PL 2-9718.

Friday, February 19

Le Cercle Francais will sponsor an illustrated lecture on “French Impressionists” by Joshua Taylor, assistant professor of art, at 3:30 p.m. in Ida Noyes library. Admission is 25 cents to nonmembers.

Valentine Frolics sponsored by the Inter - Varsity Christian Fellowship will take place at Ida Noyes, Cloister club, between 7:30 and 10 p.m. The program will include games, refreshments, singing and a devotional.

Hillel Fireside: “Song of Songs: A Literary Approach” will be the subject of a lecture by Abraham Malaural, visiting lecturer from the Hebrew University in Jerusalem. Hillel Foundation, 5715 Woodlawn, at 8:30 p.m. The Sabboth Service will precede the Fireside at 7:45 p.m.

UC Badminton Club will meet at Ida Noyes, 7:30 p.m. The group is open to all UC students and staff members.

“The Passion of Joan of Arc,” the last of a Doc Film study group series of three will be shown in Social Science 122 at 7:15 and 9:30 p.m. Admission is by $1 series ticket only.

“The Playboy of the Western World” will be presented by University Theatre at 8:30 p.m. in Mandel Hall. Tickets for 75 cents are available at the Reynolds Club desk.

Saturday, February 20

Wash Prom, with music by Woody Herman and his Third Herd, will take place in Bartlett Gym from 9 p.m. until 1 a.m. Admission 85 per couple. Breakfast will be served in Hutchinson Commons following the dance.

Sunday, February 21

Rockefeller Chapel Service at 11 a.m. The Reverend Wallace W. Robbins will preach.

A Carillon recital will be given by James R. Lawson in Rockefeller Memorial Chapel at 4 p.m.

An Open House and Coffee Hour for students will follow the Universal Day of Prayer Service. It will take place 8:30 p.m. at Chapel House, 5810 Woodlawn Avenue.

A Universal Day of Prayer for Students* Service will take place in Rockefeller Memorial Chapel, at 7:30 p.m. Mr. Herluf Jensen, a member of the Central Committee of the World Student Christian Federation, will speak.

The Playboy of the Western World will

be presented in Mandel Hall at 8:30 p.m. by University Theatre. Tickets for 75 cents are available at the Reynolds Club desk.

Monday, February 22

A German Language Table will meet at 6 p.m. in International House cafeteria.

The Astronomy Club will meet to see a movie, “Explosions on the Sun” and discuss the alumni exhibit. The meeting will be at 8 p.m., Eckhart 133.

A French film, “The Well-Digger’s Daughter,” will be shown in the As^ sembly Hall of International House at 8 p.m. Admission is 50 cents.

Tuesday, February 23

Inter-Varsity Christian Fellowship will meet for luncheon and a talk by Mr. C. Stacy Woods, General Secretary of IVCF on “Other Views of the Bible— Neo-orthodoxy.” Ida Noyes, third floor, between 12:30 and 1:20 p.m. Everyone is invited.

“The Origins of the Alhambra and the Spirit of the Eleventh Century in Islalamic Spain” is the title of a lecture to be delivered in Breasted Hall at 8:30 p.m. by Frederick P. Bargebuhr, professor of religion, at the State University of Iowa. The lecture is sponsored by the Oriental Institute and department of art.

Student Government meeting in Law North at 7:30 p.m.

Wednesday, February 24

A Carillon Recital will be presented in Rockefeller Chapel at 4:30 p.m. by James R. Lawson.

The Pre-Med Club will meet to observe operations at Billings Hospital. Contact officers of the club for further Information.

The Department of Anthropology will sponsor a lecture on •’Anthropology and the Humanities,” by Meyer Fortes, professor of anthropology at the University of Cambridge. Social Sciences 122 at 4:30 p.m.

Communication Club will sponsor a talk and discussion on “The Problem of National Character—Method of Approach and Suggestions for In ter cultural Communications.” Haskell Halt Room 203, at 8 p.m.

International House Discussion Group will hear a talk on “Peace through armaments: A military man views the problem of peace” by Captain Willard Chambers of the Fifth Army. The group will meet at 8 p.m. in the East Lounge of International House.

Thursday, Feb. 25

‘•Oliver Twist,” an English film, will be shown in International House, East lounge at 7 and 9 p.m. Admission 35 cents.

Sailing club racing class, 7:30 p.m., Columbia Yacht Club.

Speaker for hi-fi system. State make, model, and price. Call Do 3-6838.

For Rent

IS

Newly decorated 1*4 room furnished apartments. Also sleeping room. 2 blocks fom University. Linens, daily maid service. reasonable rent. 6107 Dorchester Ave. PL 2-9641.

Furnished room kitchenette. Linen, refrigerator, utilities. $9.20 week. BU 8-9736.

Riders Wanted

Medical student driving non-stop Los Angeles March 19. Will take two or three drivers. Harvey, FA 4-8520. 6 p.m.

Services

Ukulele lessons given. Reasonable rates. Contact Bob Benjaminson, B-J, Room 245. Phone MI 3-6000.

Mathematics special instruction to fit your mathematical needs. Individual or group sessions at our Loop office or location of your choice. Soglin Associates, ST 2-6727.

Buy books cheap. All kinds. Student Book Exchange, basement Cobb Hall. Tuesday, Thursday, 11-2.

Now! Now! Now! Have Joe Wolf take your picture with your date at Wash Prom!!

Manila envelope containing statistical data last Saturday between campus and Gordon’s. Leo Subotnik, MI 3-7319.

Harper (from page 7) books, Tower of Ivory, The Happy Marriage, and The Pot - of Earth. Among the collection are original printings of Robert Frost, T. S. Eliot, Amy Lowell, and others. Even the more famous examples would make a long list.

Poets' manuscripts preserved

Another interesting feature is the collection of manuscripts. It was Miss Monroe’s practice to keep the corrected proofs of each issue in a large envelope. Along with the proofs were kept the manuscripts of the poems, if these were in hand-writing or signed by the poets. Among them • are signed manuscripts by Rupert Brooke, Tagore, Joyce, Lindsay and others.

By far the most valuable part of the collection is the complete file of poets’ corespondence accumulated during the first twenty-four years of the magazine. One of the most recent additions to the collection is the 400 records of modern poets reading their own works, and records of older poets read by accomplished readers. Most of the modern poets are represented, as are those from as far back as John Donne.

For people who want to read What the newspapers were saying ten, twenty or seventy years ago, the micro-film reading room can Supply a filmed facsimile. News * of the past 75 years is still waiting to be read.

—__—* __.

GUADALAJARA SUMMER SCHOOL

The accredited bilingual summer school sponsored by the Universidad Autonoma de Guadalajara and members of the Stanford University faculty will be offered in Guadalajara, Mexico, June 27 - August 7, 1954. Offerings include art, creative writing, folklore, geography, history, language and literature courses. $225 covers sixweeks' tuition, board and room.

I Write Prof. Juan B. Rael, Box K.

Stanford University, Calif.

Chesterfields for Me!

America’s Most Popular

The cigarette that gives you proof of highest quality—low nicotine—the taste you want—the mildness you want.

Copyrigl# 1954, tican 4 Mhu Tobacco Co CHESTERFIELD Besrfogyou