Photos by Joe Wolt

New AB Students Arrive;

Old Student's Opinions Vary

With changes in the program of undergraduate education, many students and educators predicted a change in the type of people who would enroll in the University. Now that the first group of students to enter solely under the new plan has arrived, opinions are mixed on the result. Some feel that the school is going rah-rah, while others insist that the entering class is no different in many respects from former 

New Students and Old . . mingle at the orientation week picnic (left) and activities night (right). Entering students queue up for the serving of potato salad and hot dogs at the picnic dinner.

This year’s picnic featured singing by the brothers of Kappa Alpha Psi, and brief speeches by Student Union ofifcers Dale Levy and Joli Lasker and Inter-Fraternity Council president George Stone.

At right new students talk with Student Government officers Clive Gray and Bruce Larkin as they sign up for the SG sponsored tours of Chicago.

More Hew Students Here

—Slight Total Increase

There has been a substantial increase in the number of new students on the quadrangles, Registrar William E. Scott informed the Maroon this week.

Total registration will not show a proportional increase, due to large convocations in June and August.

Final registration figures will probably show slight increase over enrollment last fall, Scott stated. The final registration data will be compiled by next week.

“I think we’ve created a Frankenstein monster. What we wanted was a mild version of the Ivy league. Instead, we’re getting the worst aspects of the collegiate atmosphere of the big midwestern universities.”

Thus Bill Rosenthal, formerly of Delta Upsilon and the Cap and Gown, described the change in student’s attitudes this year. Rosenthal was a self-admitted promoter of the “rah-rah” spirit last year.

Joli Lasker, student Union vice-president, said “there are no creeps” in the entering class.

'Red-Blooded Group’

George Stone. Inter-Fraternity Council president,called the freshman class “a normal, red-blooded group.” He expects an increase in fraternity pledges this year due to increased college entrance.

Leonard Rutstein, president of Zeta Beta Tau, noticed “there seems to be a higher percentage of attractive females.” Rutstein noted that “their talk seems to be more of the extra-curriculum than of the academic.”

Clive Gray, Student Government president, said that “the entering class is most receptive toward learning about the student organizations and is taking a

great interest in these organizations.”

Some Say No

Ruth Koppel, president of the Inter-Club Council, does not believe that the campus is necessarily going “rah-rah.” She said that “participation in campus activities which had previously remained more dormant is just coming to the surface.” She says that this is a trend which “could or could not continue.”

She is anticipating a rise in the enrollment in the four girls’ clubs and attributes this to the fact that there are more girls in the entering class this year and because the entrance age has been lowered to 16.

She noticed no particular change in the majority of girls entering apart from neater clothes and a nicer appearance.

Davis Bobrow of Orientation board sounded another dissenting note. He says there has been a change which older students fear, but he could not predict whether this trend would continue.

He described the entering class as being “quite serious.” Bobrow noted that freshmen studied more during placement tests and described the students as “natural science minded.”

Dale Levy, new SU president, and frankfurter at the SU’s orientation picnic.

Remember

To Register

Tuesday is the last day to register to vote in the November 2 election. Registration will be at the precinct polling places. The board of election commissioners, DE 2-3050 has the information on the location of these polling places.

To be eligible to vote, one must be 21 years of age by November 2, have lived in Illinois since November 2, 1953, in Cook county since last August 4, and have an address in the precinct since October 2.

Hartzler Hits SC Pressure

Now that Phi Delta Theta fraternity has complied with Student Government requirements concerning discriminatory membership practices, the only “Michigan plan” case on the UC campus has been settled.

However, Phi Delta Theta still maintains that Student Government does not have proper jurisdiction over fraternities. “If the Dean of Students or the Chancellor cares to delegate his authority over student organizations to Student Government that is his business,” Harris Hartzler, president of Phi Delta Theta, said.

“But without that delegation of authority, we will resist any group which attempts to set itself above our organization or the Inter Fraternity Council.”

Denies SG Aid

Hartzler denied that SG pres Ken Nordine in 1st UT Show

University Theatre is preparing a new program of dramatic readings beginning October 9 with Ken Nordine. The series, entitled “An Evening with Ken Nordine”, features dramatic interpretations. 

“An evening with Ken Nordine” is scheduled for next Saturday in Mandel Hall. Curtain :s at 8:30 p.m. and all seats, un^served, are 75 cents each.

Winner of three achievement Awards in television, Nordine denes classification in his art. “I

tarted out to frighten people. My Anight television show ’Faces ^e window’ emphasized classic terror tales. Poe became an audi I

Ve favorite.”

Sordine now appears four times leek on WNBQ at midnight, in^nally talking about and read Pg plays and poems requested by s audience.

He has developed a new idea in Wal interpretation called “word

sure on the fraternity helped to effect a liberalization in its membership requirements at Phi Delta Theta’s national convention at Mackinac Island. Michigan, September 1-4. “On the contrary,” he said, “student pressures in general and the pressure of the UC Student Government in particular was largely discounted.”

Hartzler. who was the chapter’s alternate delegate to the convention, admitted that university administration pressures were certainly important in bringing about the change.

“The distinction should be made between administrative and student government pressures. The former certainly are proper, and I can testify that they are effective. But it is difficult to believe in the responsibility of the student governments which were active.

jazz.” Nordine refers to his technique as “free association of words and images augmented by music. It’s like playing a clarinet, with words.”

Dick Marx, a young Chicago piano player, will appear with Nordine in “word jazz.”

Nordine’s appearance at Mandel Hall will be staged in an intimate style—a few spotlights hitting the stage, piano, a high stool and an old wooden ladder filled with books.

Marvin Phillips, director of UT, is producing the show. Members of UT meeting tonight for the first time this season will assist in the production details of “An evening with Ken Nordine.”

“It is repeatedly pointed out to me,” Hartzler said, “that some of the most outspoken members of the Chicago SG were themselves members of a national fraternity which had recently gotten into difficulties over their discriminatory membership practices.

“My own opinion is that the pressures on us served only to retard a liberalization of the membership clause. The Chicago chapter was active in attempting to bring about a change fully five years before SG expressed any sentiments on the matter. The manner of illiberal ‘liberalism’ practiced here served only to obscure the moral question involved, and expressed it instead as an expediential one.

’Work of Years’

“Those who supported change

Ken Nordine popular Chicago television star will appear next week in Mandel Hall.

within the fraternity,” Hartzler said, “had already gained a great deal of support by 1951, when the Michigan Plan was passed on this campus. Far from encouraging or precipitating a liberal change, such pressures as we have been subjected to in the years since 1951 seemed to me only to have further entrenched those who opposed change.”

“Our clause was changed principally because of delegates like George Romoser, of the Chicago chapter, who were willing to hold

Strozier, Gray Praise Action

The University Administration is very happy to have received the news that the representatives to the National Convention of Phi Delta Theta voted by a three-fourths majority to remove the fraternity’s selectivity requirement for pledging and initiation.

We are proud that this forward step by Phi Delta Theta has been taken.

The organization has had a splendid record on this campus for six decades. We wish continuing success for the Chapter and its members.

ROBERT M. STROZIER, Dean of Students

I feel sure that most SG members are enthusiastic about the success of the Phi Delts in abolishing their discriminatory clause. The fraternity deserves the congratulations of the campus for the stalwart fight it carried on in opposition to the clause.

The results of the Phi Delta Theta convention, in my opinion, bear out the wiseness and justice of the Student Government Administration agreement to set the 1954 convention as the deadline for eliminating the disci minatory clause. Instead of being faced with the bitter situation of losing a fraternity that did not like its own discriminatory clause, the campus now finds what was our last officially discriminatory organization changed over to democratic membership policies.

With the shadow of discrimination and possible de-recognition no longer hanging over their head, the Phi Delts should prosper on our campus as the outstanding fraternity they were in the past.

CLIVE S. GRAY, President, Student Government

caucuses until three and four o’clock every morning, and who were able to gain the respect of even those men whom they argued against.

’Missed Reality’

“The quixotic parading of past student governments has been, certainly, a noble activity," Hartzler said, “but I think it entirely missed the reality of bur situation. The chapter hopes that it will soon have the opportunity to work together with responsible student officials.”

IN ORIGINAL Page 2

THE CHICAGO MAROON

October 1, 1954

The Collegiate Scene

Texas Segregation Issue

Splits Students, Officials

By John Twomey

The first weeks of the school year have seen important and heated issues brought forth on America’s university campuses. .

In the South, university administrators and politicians have put their heads together in attempts to meet the de-segregation issue.

Action there has ranged from full compliance with the Supreme Court decision to self righteous activities designed to abolish public school systems in certain states. Typical of the incidents which have focused attention on the desegregation issue is one involving the University of Texas.

500 Attend C-Dance;

Party Every Night

Texas Cancels Admission

Marion Ford, a Negro and high school honor student, was accepted by the University as a freshman only to have his admission subsequently canceled. A letter to Ford from the University registrar stated,Ford would have to take his freshman subjects at a Negro college and would be eligible for entrance next year to begin a major in chemical engineering.

The letter said, “If the work is offered at one or both of the Negro institutions, it is not our policy to compete with them for Negro students.”

Texan Speaks on Issue

Among the many voices raised over this incident was that of the Daily Texan, the University of Texas student newspaper. The Texan editorial, typical of the enlightened stand being taken by large segments of student leaders in the south, stated:

“Universities, the meeting place of brilliant, ever-hungry minds, the place where anthropology and sociology and psychology prove the truth of equality, should be leaders in the task of relearning standards. They should show calm but positive awareness of the need to de segregate.

“And this applies to the Unit versity of Texas. It need not ballyhoo and cause commotion that will incense fierce determination by the prejudiced to hold on to their fast-crumbling notions of superiority. It need only teach by quiet, dignified example.

“On the Ford case, the University temporarily succumbed to politically wise action that ignores leadership responsibilities. This can partially be blamed on timing. the breaking of a story when people are still too fired up.

Must Set Example

“But people of Texas can’t be expected to satisfactorily work out the tense problem of de-segregation if even the most intelligent minds are not given the chance to practice the equality preached by both science and the US government.

“The Main Building lauds the truth that ‘shall make you free’. It does not label this truth ‘for whites only’.”

Oaths Instituted

Another issue with important ramifications for all students involves the law passed by Congress during the summer, which requires loyalty certificates from all students taking basic ROTC.

Prior to this time loyalty oaths were mandatory only of senior ROTC students whose voluntary enrollment in the senior course led directly to a reserve army commission. The new law will in effect require all male freshmen at schools where basic ROTC is compulsory, which includes most state universities, to sign loyalty oaths as a prerequisite to admission.

Test Case at California

A test case stemming from this situation is emerging on the University of California campus at Berkley. There a freshman, Ralph Ornelas, who claims to have no objections to taking the basic ROTO course, has refused to sign the loyalty certificate because he objects to “the unbelievable extent to which this loyalty oath thing has gone.”

Estimates of an attendance of 500 students for the year’s first C-dance Saturday night were given by Dale Levy, Student Union president.

This figure is approximately attendance, reflecting the increased University enrollment; last year’s Wash Prom had

682 paid admissions.

The first week of the autumn quarter also featured a large number of informal, spur-of-themoment parties. At least one party was held every Saturday night in University buildings.

In near-campus apartments as many as five parties were being held nightly.

200 higher than last year’s

SRP CAUCUS

Ida Noyes

7:30 Sunday

Used •”'' Hew TEXTBOOKS 10%-50% Discount

America's Largest Educational Book House Invites You to Come in and Browse All Fields of Learning are Represented in 6 Floors of Books — 6 Million in Number, New and Used. Get a Student Discount Card and Use it for Savings on All New Books.

WE BUY BOOKS

YEAR ROUND

Our NEW General College Catalog 1954, is Available to You and Your Friends. It Lists Both Text and References Titles.

Pick It Up at Maroon Office 5706 So. University Office

WILCOX & FOLLETT CO.

1247 S. WABASH Ave. at 13th St. Phone HA 7-2840 free Parking

See you in church • • •

World Communion Sunday, October 3

UNIVERSITY CHURCH OF DISCIPLES OF CHRIST

5655 University (Opposite Bartlett Gym)

This church practices union, has no creed, seeks to make religion as intelligent as science, as appealing ^s art, as vital as the day’s work, as intimate as home, and as inspiring • as love.

Communion 10:30 a.m. Morning Worship 11 a.m.

Advertiseme .t — Advertisement — Advertisement — Advertisement

FOOTBALL THROUGH THE AGES

The football frenzy is upon us. But let us, in the midst of this pandemonium, call time. Let us pause for a moment of tranquil reflection. What is this game called football? What is its history! Its origins? Its traditions? These are not idle questions, for when we have the answers we will appreciate even more fully, enjoy even more deeply, this great American game of footba U.

First of all, to call football an American game is somewhat misleading. True, the game is now played almost exclusively in America, but it comes to us from a land far away and a civilization long dead.

Football was first played in ancient Rome. Introduced by Julius Caesar, it became one of the most popular Roman sports by the time of Nero’s reign. The eminent historian Sigafoos reports a crowd of MMCLDDXVIII people at the Colosseum one Saturday afternoon to see the Christians play the Lions.

With the decline of the Roman empire football fell into disuse. The barbaric Huns and Goths preferred canasta. However, by the Twelfth Century A.D. football had emerged from its twilight and risen to its rightful place in the firmament of European pastimes. The eminent historian Sigafoos reports that the whole continent was in the grip of wild excitement in the year 1192 when the Crusaders, under Freddie Barbarossa, journeyed all the way to Damascus to play the Saracens in the Fig Bowl game. The Crusaders squeaked through, 23 to 21, on a field goal by Dick Coeur de Lion in the closing seconds of the game, *

October 21, 1512, will ever remain a red letter day in the history of football. On that day Leonardo da Vinci, who has often been called “The Renaissance Man” because of his proficiency in a hundred arts and sciences, was painting a picture of a Florentine lady named Mona Lisa Schultz. “Listen, Mona baby,” he said as she struck a pose for her portrait, “1 keep telling you-don’t smile. Just relax and look natural."

“But I’m not smiling,” she replied.

“Well, what do you call it?” he said.

“Gee, I don’t know,” said Mrs. Schultz. “It’s just an expression, kind of.**

“Well, cut it out,” said The Renaissance Man.

“I’ll try,” she promised.

And try she did, but without success, for a moment later the artist was saying to her, “Look, Mona kid, I’m not gonna ask you again. Wipe that silly grin off your face.”

“Honest to goodness, The Renaissance Man,” said she to him, “it’s no grin. It’s just the way I look.”

“Well, just stop it,” said Leonard testily and turned away to mix his pigments.

When he turned back to Mona Lisa and saw the smile still on her face, he became so enraged that he seized the nearest object — a casava melon, as it happened — and hurled it at her with all his strength. Showing great presence of mind, she caught the melon and ran with it from the studio until The Renaissance Man’s temper should cool.

This was. of course, the first completed forward pass.

Another date dear to the hearts of all football fans is September 29, 1442. It was on this date, according to the eminent historian Sigafoos, that a sixteen year old lad named Christopher Columbus tried out for the football team at Genoa Tech. He failed to make the team because he was too light. (He weighed at that time ofily 12 pounds.)

And why, you ask, is this date — September 29, 1442 — so dear to the hearts of all football fans? Because young Columbus was so heartbroken at not making the team that he ran away to sea. And if that hadn’t happened, he never would have discovered America. And if Columbus hadn’t discovered America, the world never would have discovered tobacco. And if the world hadn’t discovered tobacco, football fans never would have discovered Philip Morris — which, as every fan knows, is the perfect companion to football. As Sigafoos, the eminent historian, says, “Land’s sakes, I can’t even imagine football without Philip Morris. I’d sooner go to a game without my raccoon coat than without my neat, rich tobacco-brown snap-open pack of mild vintage Philip Morris Cigarettes which come in regular or king-size at prices youns and old can afford. Land’s sakes!”

The end of football in Europe came with the notorious “Black Sox Scandal” of 1587, in which Ed Machiavelli, one of the Pisa mob, paid off the University of Heidelberg Sabres to throw the championship game to the Chartres A. and M. Gophers. It was a mortal blow to football on the continent.

But the game took hold in the American colonies and thrived as it had never thrived before. Which brings us to another date that remains evergreen in the hearts of football lovers: December 16,1771.

On that date a British packet loaded with tea sailed into Boston harbor. The colonies had long been smarting under the English king’s tax on tea. “Taxation without representation,” they called it, and feelings ran high.

When on December 16, 1771, the British ship docked at Boston, a semi-pro football team called the Nonpareil Tigers, coached by Samuel (Swifty) Adams, was scrimmaging near the harbor. “Come, cried Swifty, seeing the ship.“Let’s dump the tea in the ocean!”

With many a laugh and cheer the Nonpareil Tigers followed Swifty aboard and proceeded to dump the cargo overboard in a wild, disorganized and abandoned manner. “Here now!” called Swifty sharply. “That’s no way to dump tea overboard. Let’s get into some kind of formation.”

And that, fans, is how the “T” formation was born.

©Max Shulman. 1954

This column is brought to you by the makers of PHILIP MORRIS who think you would enjoy their cigarette.

Advertisement — Advertisement— Advertisement — Advertiseme^ /^ctobef V 1954

THE CHICAGO MAROON

Page 3

SC Works Six Months, Plans Projects, Program

Teacher Shortage to be Met By New Intensive Program

| Student Government worked during the spring and summer quarters to prepare the orientation program of last week, Clive Gray, SG president said. Former services were enlarged and revamped and several new ones were added, he continued.

Student Government provided orientation personnel to greet the new students when they arrived at the dormitories.

Early in the week each new student was given the 1954-55 Student Activities handbook urhich SG published. Along with this publication freshmen received a list of the 40 stores functioning under the Student Account service.

In addition students received cards for three buying services, NSA, Atlas and Miriams. Catalogues for the Atlas and Miriam buying services will be distributed in the student service center in the Reynolds club basement. These lists and other information on SG and the service center were distributed to all students at central registration.

Turnout Good

College activities night and the newh instituted divisional activities night Monday evening were sponsored and organized by SG. The turnout and participation at both functions and especially the new divisional night were most encouraging, Gray said.

This past week SG sponsored two tours of the campus daily and for those students new to the Chicago area, four bus tours conducted by Gray visited sights in the Chicago area.

Because response to these tours was so active, the government has decitied to hold another 3*4 hour tour tomorrow.

New Activities Assistant

Old University Hand

Portrait* by LOUISE BARKER Photographer

1457 E. 57th St. BU 8-0876

“Rossie whoops Mrs. Newman, speaking.”

If you call the office of student activities and are greeted with the above, you will be speaking with the newly-appointed assistant director of student activities, Mary Alice Newman. The reason for her uncertainly is that she only recently became Mrs. Newman.

She was married to James Newman. student in the Law school, September 12 in Bond Chapel. The Newmans are presently living in Salisbury House in B J, where Jim is resident head.

“Rossie,” as she prefers to be called, is taking the place of Alma Mullin, who for several years assisted William Birenbaum, director of student activities. Mrs. Mullin is now at Shimer college, where her husband has been appointed president.

Last August, as Mary Alice Ross, Rossie received her Ph.D. in history here at the University. While working on her degree, she was resident head of Foster Hall in the C-group dorms. This year Rossie is an instructor in history in the college.

Mrs. Newman, sitting at her desk in the student activities office, was surrounded by social calendars, activities lists, organization paraphenalia, and recipes for green punch. She said that she was very much impressed with the responsibility of student activity leaders. “They do a good job,” she said, “and they’re lots of fun. which makes my work more enjoyable.”

Campus to Receive New Chicago Bishop

Canterbury club and the Episcopal church council will hold a reception Tuesday for the new' Bishop of Chicago, the Right Reverend Gerald Francis B u r r i 11, S.T.D.

Bishop and Mrs. Burrill will be honored guests at Ida Noyes Hall from 8-10 p.m. The library will be the scene of coffee and conversation until 9. A simple program will follow at which the Bishop will address those present.

WOODWORTH’S BOOKSTORE

Heady to Serve Your Every Need

Tent Books

NEW AND USED

(lass Roam Supplies

Typewriters Sold - Rented Repaired

•

Postal Station — Rental Library

1311 East 57th Street

2 BLOCKS EAST OF MANDEL BALL

Store Hours: Daily, 8:00 A.M. to 6:00 P.M.

Evenings — Monday, Wednesday, Friday to 9:00 P.M.

Bishop Burrill, formerly Bishop of Dallas, Texas, is interested in the relationship between religious knowledge and other knowledge.

All members of the University community are invited, whether Episcopalians or not, a spokesman for the groups said.

low-priced

7u/ee Mf

See the clear, clean colors in this rug heightened with bright bits of accent. Here is a Handsome, yes, but down-to-earth in practical long use, and H195 minimum cost A I

HERMANS

935 E. 55th St.

Ml 3-6700

“Rig enough to serve you. Small enough to want to”

“There are many indications of a need for significant changes in the education of teachers,” Francis S. Chase, chairman of the department of education, said in announcing an intensive one-year course designed as a new approach to meeting the current teacher shortage.

“We believe this pilot effort will demonstrate that a short, intensive, and unified kind of preparation will meet the growing teacher shortage with teachers of improved competence,” Chase said. The course was opened to those who had received four-year bachelor’s degrees within the past 15 years, and will meet the requirement for certification in many states, including Illinois,

“Students in the project will have an unusually wide range of activities,” Herbert Thelen, a member of the committee directing the course, said. “They will observe classes, work with classes, demonstrate techniques to each other, and talk with other teachers. They will make studies of individual children, work on small group projects, and visit other schools. They will have an opportunity to pioneer in an unusual program in teacher education.”

Other committee members are J. W. Getzels, assistant professor in the department of education, and Kenneth Rehage, associate professor in the department of education. Thelen is also an associate professor in education.

Early-bird

Classes Now At U-College

Early-bird classes at University College are the latest step in the school’s program of adult education. Scheduled to meet at 7 a.m. in the University’s downtown center, 19 S. La Salle, the classes have already attracted three instructors and five students.

According to Galway Kinnell, director of the liberal arts program, these courses in the basic program of liberal arts for adults are being offered on an experimental basis.

4-Year Course

The program is designed for people with unusual working hours or who are too tired to study at night. Courses similar to those offered during the day and evening are being offered. The program extends over a four year period and gives two years of college credit.

Monday and Wednesday meetings are devoted to discussions of the great books. Tuesday features analysis of rhetorical arguments and Thursday meetings consider study in the methods of natural science.

“The program has started moving very satisfactorily,” Chase said.

The program was originally planned for 25 students, but because of its late announcement, only eleven are enrolled.

Specialists in child development, psychology, sociology and methods of teaching will contribute to the learning experience of the students, and students will have opportunity tor frequent conferences with those responsible for the course, Chase said.

Formal practice teaching will occupy most of the last three months of the program, which will take a total of nine months. Students will then be assisted in finding suitable positions.

New Housing

Head Gives

View of Dorms

Arthur Kiendl. the new director of University housing, looks like the eastern college man he is. He has a crew-cut, pin-striped jacket, khaki pants and knit tie.

He is a native of New Jersey and attended Columbia university and the US Military Academy at West Point. He was assistant dean and director of counseling at Dartmouth college in New Hampshire before coming to UC. There his primary responsibility was student activities and housing was his “baliwork.”

Kiendl is presently working on his doctorate in college administration which is his main interest. He says “it’s my life.”

Likes BI

With his wife and two children, Kiendl is living in B-J. He finds life there “wonderful and amazing.” He particularly likes the two large dining rooms in B-J. which, he says, prevent the “house cliques”’ that develop when each house has separate dining rooms.

Also they give the student an opportunity to meet students from other houses. He is particularly impressed by what he calls the unusual architectural achievement of B-J. but he thinks the dorm should have more facilities for student activities.

Kiendl finds Snell and Hitchcock adequate but thinks that the girls’ dorms could “definitely st And moderniaztion.”

‘Good Example’

He particularly emphasized that he has no preconceived notions on how to do things here. He does not “envisage any dramatic changes, for the uniqueness of our University should, above all. be kept and even improved.”

Kiendl is impressed with the highly developed housing system and thinks it is a superior example of college housing. He remarked that he would “like to see the house system kept a vital and stimulating segment of the educative process.” * ITALIAN FIESTA PIZZERIA

Large $2 Special Pizza

1A Sausage 14 Anchovy ’4 Pepper 1/4 Mushroom

1437 E. 67th MU 4 ^

TABLE SERVICE

<

4 FREE DELIVERY TO U. of C. STUDENTS On orders over $2

Quick Courteous Service 7 Days a Week DELIVERY SERVICE

4. 5 P.M. to 3 A.M Fife 4

THE CHICAGO MAROON

October T, !f^i

Issued once weekly by the publisher. The Chicogo Maroon, at the publication office, 5706 South University Avenue, Chicago 37, Illinois. Telephones: Editorial Office, Midway 3-0800, Ext. 1010; Business and Advertising Offices, Midway 3-0800, Ext. 1009. Distributed free of charge, and subscriptions by mail, $3 per year. Business Office hours: 1 to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday.

Allen R. Janger Richard E. Ward editor-in-chief managing editor Editors Column Let Bygones Be Bygones

Like a Coriolanus of old, Harris Hartzler returned to campus last week. Hartzler is the president of the UC chapter of Phi Delta Theta. As president he was leader of the chapter delegation to the national fraternity convention on Mackinac island. With him, on his return, he brought the trophies of an unexpected victory over the forces within the fraternity who favored the continuation of

the clause in the national constitution excluding Jews and Negroes.

As in the story of Coriolanus, Hartzler’s victory had not been

expected. His fraternity was united behind him in condemnation of the clause. His alumni, however, were indifferent where they were not in the opposition. If, therefore, the battle at Mackinac had been lost and the local chapter forced from the national fraternity, it is doubtful that the chapter could have swung sufficient financial aid to continue on the UC campus.

To destroy what last vestige of confidence might have remained to Hartzler, the delegations from the southern schools formed a bloc sufficient to stop any removal of the clause.

Yet the local chapter won. The Michigan Plan was finally achieved. Most people on campus have been happy and surprised.

Hartzler’s reaction to all this, however, has been anything but happy. He has celebrated his victory by lashing out at both Student Government and Phi Kappa Psi.

Out of all fairness to Hartzler it is impossible to really assess the truth of his claim that Student Government pressure retarded the destruction of the selectivity

The first regular meeting of the Maroon staff will be held next Monday at 3:30 p.m. Prospective and former staff members are invited to attend.

Summer-Courses Circle Globe

The College has announced the completion of arrangements for summer courses in Aspen, Colorado and in Europe. Margaret E. Perry, assistant dean of the college stated that there would be three sets of courses, taken from the University curriculum, given during the summer of 1955.

The first of the three groups is a Humanities 1 course to be given in Aspen, Colorado. It will last nine weeks and will cost approximately $500, including tuition, food, and lodging.

There are two sets of courses being offered in Europe. Each will cost approximately $1,000. One will be at Cambridge University and the University of London. The first six weeks will be spent at Cambridge and the remainder at London. The history of western civilization will be studied.

The final group of courses French 1 and 2 will be given at the University at Paris. The cost of the two European trips includes transatlantic passage, food and lodging, tuition and courserelated travel.

All courses will be taught by members of the University of Chicago faculty. Twenty students will be allowed in each group. Printed folders giving complete information about the courses will be available soon.

Students wishing a place reserved for them in one of the groups should contact Miss Perry in Goodspeed Hall, room 201, as soon as possible.

clause. We had no observers at Mackinac. But his repeated claim that Student Government has no power to apply anti-discrimination legislation to UC fraternities casts doubt on the Hartzler judgment. In Dean Strozier’s letter outlining the final agreement with Student Government and setting the October 1 date for Phi Delt compliance there was a clear statement of Student Government jurisdiction in the case.

But even if Hartzler’s statements were a paragon of good reason, one wonders if it isn’t time to let bygones be bygones.

Hartzler and Phi Delta Theta might do well to remember that all Coriolanus got for his pride was death at the hands of the Roman people.

Allen R. Janger

Chess Meet

Chess club holds its first meeting at 8 p.m. Wednesday in the Judson lounge.

Presumably present will be the 45 new students, including ten girls, who signed up at activities night. On hand to meet them will be several veteran chess players, including President Bob Shapiro and Illinois state champion Chuck Henin.

The group plans ,j initiate a campus-wide tournament as well as furnishing instruction for beginners.

37te rf/^tf Jii

PHOTOGRAPHERS

MIDWAY 3-4433

1171 EAST 55th STREET

"Disc SALE 1367 E. 57th St.

All Westminster Records $3"

September New Releases Included Open Weekdays Until 10 Saturdays Until 5

Letters Supports O'Hara

Following the best traditions of the University, faculty and students alike are keenly conscious of political events on all levels. This election year affords a special opportunity for the expression of this lively interest. Within the Second Congressional District, which includes the University area, two men are contesting a seat in the House of Representatives. These are Barratt O’Hara D) and Richard Vail (R).

Vail’s record is, from a liberal point of view, quite abysmal. He is notoriously anti-Negro, antisemitic, and in general anti-foreigner. He has repeatedly attacked the U. of C. on the House floor as a shelter of and breeding place for Communists and other subversives. He has been conducting for the past year a whispering campaign appealing to racial prejudices

O’Hara on the other hand is the living antithesis to these qualities of Vail's. His record against racial discrimination is well-known. He has the highest regard for the academic traditions of the University. His supporters include the CIO - PAC (Political Action Committee), AFL, and the IVI (Independent Voters of Illinois).

Faced with a clear choice, a group of students contacted Mr. O’Hara. The product of this meeting was the Student Faculty Committee for Barratt O’Hara, organized to work in coordination with the O’Hara campaign committee to Inform the campus of the issues and personalities involved in the November election, and to mobilize the campus effectively to get out the vote Roger L. Kelly

Praises

As a recent returnee to the campus community I have found one bright spot in an otherwise dim picture. I refer to the Student Service Center whose many services I have found most helpful. Their book prices are the lowest I have found in the area and their ticket and loan services have saved me a great deal of inconvenience already. I am sure that I will be patronizing the Center again and again during the academic year. My congratulations to the Student Government or a notable achievement.

Manny Kohn

Letters Welcomed

The Manion welcomes letters from Ms readers. Any commenta on matters of interest to the University community are appropriate subject matter.

Letters should not exceed 250 words. letters exceeding this limit will be subject to editing.

The Maroon will not consider for publication letters which do not bear the author’s signature. However, the author’s name will he withheld from publication upon request.

Letters should Im* addressed to Editor. Chicago Maroon, 5706 University Ave.

SAVE! SAVE! SAVE!

Place Your Orders Yatrf

PRE PUBLICATION OFFERS SAVE YOU UP TO $2.50

ON THESE IMPORTANT NEW BOOKS!

ABRAHAM LINCOLN — Sandburg’s new one-volume biography. Until October 7th, $6.00; after October 7th, $7.50.

FIRESIDE BOOK OF LOVE SONGS — Companion to the Folk Song volume. Until October 30th, $4.95; afterword, $6.00.

MASTERS OF MODERN ART, by Barr. More than 300 works from the collection of the Museum of Modern Art. Until October 30th, $12.50; after October 30th, $15.00.

WOODLAND PORTRAITS, by Klute. Superb color photography. Until October 13, $17.50; after October 13th, $20.00.

GREAT RIVER, by Horgan. The story of the Rio Grande, 2 vols , boxed. Until October 11th, $9.00; after October 11th, $10.00.

THE STORY OF MAN, by Coon. The story of how mankind has lived for 50,000 years. Until October I 8th, $6.00; after October I 8th, $6.75.

PICTORIAL HISTORY OF AMERICAN SCIENCE AND INVENTION, by Wilson. The full sweep of America's inventive genius. Until October 30th, $8.50; after October 30th, $10.00.

UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO

BOOKSTORE

5802 Ellis Avenue

 | Not One Man... But The | | Bill Of Rights Is At Stake! | EE The Claude Lightfoot case is the first in American =

History where a citizen has been jailed on the sole EE EE charge of MEMBERSHIP in a dissenting political S = organization. EE

| COME — TO THE PUBLIC RALLY ON THE 1 | LIGHTFOOT CASE

I SUNDAY, OCTOBER 3RD, 3:00 P.M. I =

= AT WASHINGTON PARK — 53rd AND SOUTH PARK =

H HEAR — THE FACTS IN THE LIGHTFOOT CASE j | SPEAKERS: PAUL ROBESON, world famous 5 = artist g

REV. WILLIAM T. BAIRD

H WILLIAM L. PATTERSON

EE and others ... s

EE Claude Lightfoot's imprisonment endangers YOUR S EE FREEDOM? Every American's Constitutional right to EE political dissent is at stake! 2

= Auspices: Washington Park Forum

EE Civil Rights Congress of III.

= 6 East Lake St., Chicago, III NSA Meets

At Roosevelt

The National Student Assort#, tion has announced that it will hold its Illinois Regional Execu. tive Committee meeting on Satu*, day, Oct. 2, at Roosevelt Univegk sity.

The agenda will include all gers eral matters, but will deal particularly with the regional program for the coming year, according to Hila Seideman, secretary of the Illinois regional executive com. mittee.

Three students from UC will ah tend the meeting. They are Bruce D. Larkin, Lawrence Lichtenstein and Hila Seideman. They arc president. vice-president, and secretary, respectively, of the Illinois Region of NSA. October 1, 1954

THE CHICAGO MAROON

Page 5

Lower Teachers' Tuition

Teachers in elementary and secondary schools, and holders of . bachelor’s degrees admitted to the department of education for professional preparation of teaching mi elementary schools, are being given remission of half-tuition in the University starting this quarter.

The remissions are available in any area of the University to both teachers and substitutes in service. and teachers on leave for professional improvement. The tuition remission grants will be made for a maximum of nine courses beyond the master's degree and are assured through June 30, 1958, Francs S. Chase, chairman of the department of education said.

Fees at University College, the downtown center, which are kept lower than fees on campus, will

not be reduced by the full 50 per cent, but will be equalized with reduced fees on campus for those eligible for the remission.

This financial assistance is expected to aid in reducing the curren shortage of qualified teachers, according to Chase.

The special tuition rates are lower by $10 for the first graduate level course and $20 for each additional course in University College, and by $50 and $35 for courses taken on campus, for those eligible.

Male students who wish student deferments must register in the Registrar’s office, William E. Scott, registrar, declared yesterday.

NO

LONELY

CROWD

AT UT

55 th & University Ml 3-0524

Abundant Bookstores

Supply Student Needs

In a community of scholars, scholars often need books. To provide for these needs, there are several bookstores in the immediate University area, and significant concentrations of bookstores in and near the loop, and on the near north side.

Of the bookstores immediately associated with the University, three stand out: the University bookstore, the Student Book Exchange, and Woodworth’s. The University bookstore, most often simply referred to as “the Book Eye Examinations

Visual Training

Dr. Kurt Rosenbaum

optometrist

1132 E. 55th Street

store.” selfs all the required syllabi in both the College and the divisions. It also has a post office, records, typewriters and cameras, a quick-lunch counter, a tobacco counter, a stationary supplies counter, and a clothing department. It carries a wide selection of non required books and periodicals, but its prices, particularly in the non-literary departments, tend to be somewhat high. You will find the Bookstore opposite Cobb, and branches in Judd, and in the downtown center.

The Book exchange, located in the consolidated Student Services Center in Reynolds club basement, re-sells used books brought in by students. It is a particularly good place to buy used syllabi which have not been changed from year to year.

Wood worth’s, on 57th street near Kenwood, has the largest selection of new pocket books and Modern Library editions in the

area, as well as a good second hand book supply. It carries a very similar line to the Bookstore, even including new syllabi and UC marked paraphernalia. It due# not have food.

Opposite Woodworth’s is Schneeman’s Red Door bookstore. I ju will know it by its red doo*. R carries a very large stock, both new and used, and the best selection of "unusual” and foreign books around the quadrangles.

Watch for Clark and Clark’s bargain book sales. They sell publishers’ remains at discounts sometimes as great as 20 or 30 per cent from the list price, and* the selection is very wide. They also have a ten-cent counter, and a wide range of used pocket books at seven cents a copy.

Acasa bookstore specializes in old books and periodicals, both used and new, sold on a bargain basis. In addition it has a big selection and good greeting cards.

ho 7-9071 Hyde Park Theatre ‘t^sio*

HYde Park 3-8372

UNIVERSITY THEATRE

An Evening

PRESENTS

With Ken Nordine

and his

Word Jazz

Saturday, Oct. 9, at 8:30 P.M. — 75c

Mandel Hall, University & 57th

Storting Friday,

Grand Prix M Venice

Oct. 1 for otic week

Film Festival, Rene Claire's

Beauties of the Night

Gina Letebcigide — Garorda Philippe — Martine Carol

"Delightful.' — Life

"Wonderfully natty." — Time

"Delicious dreaming omong Rene Claire's best."

— Soturdoy Review of Literature

"Gino Lolobrigtdc reveals she isn't kidding, she is formidable all alone." — N.Y. Times

___i with

Castle in the Air

Margaret Rutherford — David Tom Hasan — A. E. Matthews

A wonderful charming spoof with Margaret ’Blithe Spirit) Rutherford giving one of her zoniest performances.

Coming next: Charles Laughton in David Leon's "Hoboan's Choice" Student Rote 50c — AH Performances If you present I.D, Cord at the box office

Start smoking Camels yourself!

Make the 30-day Camel Mildness Test.

Smoke only Camels for 30 days — see for yourself why Camels’ coo) mildness and rich flavor agree with more people than any other cigarette!

AGREE WITH MORE PEOPLE THAN ANY OTHER CIGARETTE

B J. Beynslds Tobaieu Company. Whiston-Salem. N. O.

SUCCESS STORY:

Camels—America's most popular cigarette ...by far.1

\ ^ Came

Several years ago,

I -found out Camels have

-the, most delightful j flavor and mildness of

any Cigarette .Try j

Cancels and you'll be W as enthusiastic as I I I

and how it started.

TERESA WRIGHT says: "Up to 16, my knowledge of acting had been gleaned from seeing movies. When I saw my first professional play, that was it: I only wanted to act. I got into high school plays, wrestled props at Provincetown, understudied, sat for months in producers' reception rooms. One rainy night, sick with a cold, I read for a good role, and got it!’' Bli™™

Pat# 6

THE CHICAGO MAROON

October 1, 1954

Debates Listed

Student Forum under the direction of Marvin Phillips, has announced an extensive program of activities for this quarter. Two tournaments, one for novices, have definitely been scheduled. Others will be added if the interest in debate demands it.

Leading Colleges throughout the nation will be guests of Student Forum for debates during the season. Last year teams came from as far as Harvard and California to debateat Chicago. Also in the past teams from India and Oxford have been entertained.

The first meeting of Student Forum will be held Monday afternoon at 3:30 p.m. in the Reynolds Club Theatre. Room 306. There

Playwrights' "Peer Cynt" 'Brawling, Sexy, Colorful'

INTERNATIONAL NOUSE MOVIE PROGRAM

Assembly Holl, Moaday end Thursday Evening at 8

Monday, Oct. 4—The BICYCLE THIEF (Italian)

Directed by Vittorio De Sico

Thursday, Oct. 7—The LATE GEORGE APLEY (American) Starring Ronald Colman

will be an exhibition debate followed by a coffee hour, at which time plans for the coming season will be discussed. Any student interested in debate and discussion is cordially invited to attend. Phillips stated.

As usual the first row at the Playwrights’ Theatre club is a miidly hazardous undertaking. Their brawling, sexy production of Peer Gynt contains enough belly wiggling, buffoonery, and brilliantly costumed pageantry to stir the slowest pulse, and yet, rather than a hindrance, this colorful riot is a perfect vehicle for the mighty disintegration of Gynt’s ill-fated personality.

The challenge of establishing continuity in this wonderful carnival is ably met by Byrne Piven in the title role. Whether as the

lazy young philanderer, the middle aged tycoon plotting world conquest, or the broken old man about to be melted down as too insignificant to attract either God or the Devil, Piven's interpretation of the Ibsen character is full and dynamic.

Scarcely less praise can be given to the brilliantly supporting cast. Perhaps the characterization of the Madhouse director by Eugene Troobnick, Edward Asner as the Button-Moulder, and Anthony Holland as the Devil were the most memorable, but Lee Henry as the Troll King and Joy

^MUJ^Ul NCK,

by AL CAPP

WILDROOT CREAM OIL KEEPS HAIR COMBED FROM MORNING TILL NIGHTim*’ WITHOUT GREASINESS

Grodzins as Solveig were scarcely less effective.

The production itself is a refreshing change from the usual over reverential treatment of Ibsen and the music of Tom O’Horgan far more effective than any program of Grieg selections Linder the direction of Paul Sills, stagings of crowd scenes whose complexities would rarely be attempted elsewhere are given a completely professional finish. Performances will continue through October 17.

Bowen

Kitt Coming

STUDENTS!

To Campus?

Mahalia Jackson. Trumbull

Got a Lucky Droodle in your noodle?

.MAKE25

MAN PLAYING THOMSONS IN TELEPHONE BOOTH

SHIP ARRIVING TOO LAP!

TO SAVE DROWNING WITCH

Want to pick up $25? Make up a Lucky Droodle and send it in. It’s easy.

If you want to find out just how easy it is, ask Roger Price, creator of Droodles. “Very!” Price says. Better yet, do a Droodle yourself, like the ones shown here.

Droodle anything you like. And send in as many as you want. If we select yours, we’ll pay $25 for the right' to use it, together with your name, in our advertising. We’re going to print plenty—and lots that we don’t print will earn $25 awards.

Draw your Droodles any size, on any piece of paper, and send them with your descriptive titles to Lucky Droodle, P. O. Box 67, New York 46, N. Y. Be sure your name, address, college and class are included.

While you’re droodling, light up a Lucky —the cigarette that tastes better because it’s made of fine tobacco and “It’s Toasted” to taste better.

DROODLES, Copyright, 1953, by Roger Price

“IT’S TOASTED”

to taste better!

©A T. Co. PRODUCT OF

AMERICA’S LEADING MANUFACTURER OF CIGARETTES

FLASH!

LUCKIES LEAD AGAIN IN COLLEGES!

Newest, biggest survey of smokers in colleges from coast to coast, based on 34,440 actual student interviews, "shows that students prefer Luckies to all other brands. Once again, the No. 1 reason: Luckies taste better.

Park, fair educational practices, and Eartha Kitt will all lie on the agenda at the open meeting of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP)- next Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. in Ida Noyes east lounge.

Spiritual singer Jaskson and songstress Kitt will be part of a proposed cultural program for the year. Trumbull Park and fair educational practices will be raised as possible objects ef on-campus NAACP action at the Wednesday meeting.

NAACP faculty advisor Gerhard Meyer. Youth Council Director Fabry Roby, and student Fred Hubbard will also speak briefly on such topics as discrimination in Chicago Housing Authority projects, and the Trumbull Park situation.

Trumbull Park is the housing project in which twenty Negro families are the objects of their neighbors’ stoning, jeers, and w h at NAACP characterizes as “bigotry, lawlessness, and ignorance.”

Following the three speakers all students present will be invited to state their views on an effective local program as part of the national organization's Fight for Freedom crusade. This crusade has as its objective the “complete elimination of segregation and discrimination in America by January 1, 1963, the centennial of the Emancipation? Proclamation.”

SLEEP LEARNING “The Revolution in Education” Now you can literally “sleep your way through college”—actually leanr languages, poetry, prose, tables of numbers, vocabulary words, lecture notes —ALL WHILE YOU SLEEP! Illustrated booklet, ‘Learn a Language—While You Sleep,” tells astonishing results—gives complete instructions on how any student can make device cheaply, with no work involved —no mechanical experience necessary.

Sleep-learning ia nut injurious in any way—does not disturb sleep. Your money back if results not obtained. Clip this ad —send for booklet today. (Price $2.00).

Sleep-Learning Research Ass'i. 114 S. 38lh. Ave.-Omaha 3, Mehr. October I, 1954

THE CHICAGO MAROON

^ 7

Team Loses Some Men

Soccer draws multi-national team

Col. Bertie Mc Cormick could Holland and the Venezuelan !l

But in Running Condition

Today’s intrasquad cross country meet may give that skinny team some of their season’s toughest competition. This doesn’t mean that Wheaton, Nebraska, Iowa State and other scheduled schools will be pushovers. But few of them will be likely to produce as many consistently fine runners as are going today in Washington Park.

Unfortunately, not all of these harriers will be eligible for college competition. Hal Higdon, Walt Deike, Arnie Meardon, Lawton Lamb and Ray Sanders are all ineligible for various

not approve of the ’54 Maroon soccer team. Not only are there players from Holland and Venezuela, but two of the top team members are English.

John Godfrey, old “pro” of the hooters, and Stanley Ewart John both hail from the mother country. William Vanderbyl is from

Marco Tulio Eugenio. Avoiding the inevitable, Fete Rosen is not a foreigner merely because his home is in Brooklyn.

Other players come main!? from the Psi U House, including Godfrey. These are Alex Shane^ George Stone, Dave Utley, Bruce Colby, and Gerry Czamanske.

reasons.

Higdon, last year’s oncedefeated captain, has already run four years. Deike, former Big Ten crosscountry champ, is saving his remaining season until the next Olympic year. Meardon and Lamb have exhausted all of their college time, and Sanders is awaiting the draft out of school.

When these runners compete during the year it will be under Chicago Track club sponsorship.

Enough runners remain, however, to delight almost any cross country coach. Seven are from last fall’s undefeated squad, and nine more are newcomers to the Midway.

Greenlee is ace

Sam Greenlee is the ace of the nine newcomers. A former Wisconsin runner like Deike, Greenlee has done a half mile in 1 minute 53 seconds, and a quarter in under 50 seconds. He can move up to three or four miles with relative ease, and ought to finish high in all the coming meets.

Lowell Hawkinson and Ted Fishman are the two other outstanding transfer students. Hawkinson from Texas ran track for Chicago last winter until a foot injury forced him into temporary retirement. He is back this fall, twenty-five pounds lighter and quite a few seconds faster. Fishman ran for Illinois Navy Pier previously. His specialty was the half, his best time 1:57.

Other newcomers are freshman

Dave Houk; John Spaulding, a transfer student from Swarthmore, Izak Heyns who fails from South Africa; and Ned Price, Legare Briggs, and Herman Zimmerman.

Oldtimers still core

In spite of this talented influx, oldtimers who helped win eight and lose none last year will remain the sturdy, reliable core of the team. Jim Flynn who finished close behind Higdon, Ken Stapley who is in his fourth year of compeition, Johnny Smothers running his second year after a stay at California, and Tim Nuveen who was battling polio a year ago at this time form the older part of the core. Second year men Paul Baptist, Art Omohundro and Dan

APPROVE!)

by faculty and students

Now! Write legible papers and notes, because Paper-Mate never smears, blots or clogs I Guaranteed leak-proof. No stoppages— more than 70,000 words without refilling.

Paper-Mote IVJiweeth earts

Trifone fill out the list.

Moyle Schedules Matches For Autumn Tennis Season

Repeating his fall tennis experiment of last year, Coach Bill Moyle has so far scheduled four matches for the autumn season.

Elmhurst College leads the list this year. The Illinois school will invade the varsity courts next Thursday, October 7, at 1:30. Moyle’s racquet wielders will have to win this meet and four others

Soccer and Cross Country Schedules

Nine soccer and thirteen cross country dates have been scheduled for the coming season. Two more soccer dates are pending. The fall schedule is soccer now stands:

Wed., Oct. Gj Morton Jr. College home Sat., Oct. 9—Wheaton away Thurs., Oct. 14—Illinois Navy Pier home

if they are to duplicate last fall’s 5 0 record.

Many returning veterans make the prospect very good. Myron Howland, Chuck Werner, George Stone, and Duncan Burford form the team’s core at this moment, but six or eight other veterans may displace any of these four.

Since the average meet consists of six singles and three doubles contests, at least two other players will get regular service. Many schools bring eight or ten players. Meets will therefore consist of eight and four, or ten and five singles and doubles matches. Norm Strom.inger, Bob Kelso, Toby Owen, and Tom Zokowski, plus Al Knight, Ray Kunze, Rene Montjoie and Gerard Lederman complete the veteran contingent.

Wheaton top foe

Wheaton under coach Gil Dodds will probably provide the toughest competition for Ted Haydon’s apprentices. With Japanese Olympic man “Cookie” Moriya going for them they are bound to be better than run of the mill runners.

The Central AAU 5000 Meter Run on Thanksgiving Day will be the big Track Club meet. Winners last year, the Track Club hopes to repeat as team champions.

UNIVERSITY BARBER SHOP

1453 E. 57th

Fine haircutting Two barbers working Floyd C. Arnold Proprietor

Paper-Mate

Pens /

Perfect size for purse or pocket

Click—point out Click—point retracts

Wide choice of school or college colors

New! Exclusive!

^lt *4 , >*'

FAN!

TRADE*'

Silvered-Tij

Refills in Red,8

Blue, Green,'t

L Black:. A

k 49C

Sat., Oct. 16—Purdue away

Sat., Oct. 23—Illinois Navy Pier home

Sat., Oct. 30—Earlham home

Sat., Nov. 6—Wheaton horrife

Sun., Nov. 7—Indiana home

Sat., Nov. 13—Morton Jr. College away

Cross country runners will follow this schedule:

Fri., Oct. 1—Intrasquad meet home

Sat., Oct. 9—Illinois Navy Pier home

Sat.. Oct. 16—Wheaton away

Wed., Oct. 20—St. George

(“B” meet) home

Sat., Oct. 23—Albion away

Sat , Oct. 30—Milwaukee State home Valparaiso Wright Jr. College

Sat., Nov. 6—Iowa State away

Nebraska

Sat., Nov. 13—Butler home

Washington U.

Wed., Nov. 17—Bradley away

WILBUR JUST WOKE UP TO THE FACT THAT HE'S IN CLASS!

KEEP ALERT FOR A BETTER POINT AVERAGE!

Don’t let that “drowsy feeling” cramp your style in class ... or when you’re “hitting the books”. Take a No Doz Awakener! In a few minutes, you’ll be your normal best... wide awake alert! Your doctor will tell you—No Doz Awakeners are safe as co^ee. Keep a pack handy!

15 TABLETS, 35c

* Phi-Beta” pack 35 tablets

* handy tin

'NO[)OZ

AWAKENERS i

SUSSEX B.D.

/' A

Wheels who get around wear an ARROW...Button-Down

h’s the one shirt that says—“You’re really with it.” And that campus-classic the Arrow button-down shirt ... is ready in a solid variety of styles like the traditional Gordon Dover. With all these perfect-fitting Arrow shirts, you’ll get “button-down correctness” PLUS a lift that gives a man his individuality. #4.50 in white broadcloth; white oxford, #5.00—same price in color!

DOVER

HITT

.A/WIOWs HIRTS & TIES

UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • CASUAL WEAR

<)9t4 Phper-Ma U Co.. Inc.. Culver City. Cal#,]

for smoother, easier, faster writing

ALL-AMERICAN

College Classic

on everybody’s wardrobe team. Just right for a real crowd pleaser — wear it for any occasion — off campus or on.

It’s casual, and dressy when it has to be. Drop in and let us drop one over your manly frame. Smooth styles above: Left, the Gordon Dover BD, available in white or colors. Right, the Arrow Sussex BD (medium spread collar), regular or french cuffs. Broadcloth button downs from #4.50, oxford #5.00.

CHICAGO - EVANSTON - OAK PARK - GARY JOLIET - ALTON - EVERGREEN M 8

THE CHICAGO MAROON

October 1, 1954

Classified...

Coming Campus Events

In Brief

Classified Ad Policy

Students/ faculty members, and other University employees may insert classified ads m the w^/oon at a special discount rate. The first 15 words cost 50c and each additional word is 5c,

For all persons not connected with the University the classified ad rate is 10c per word.

All services, rooms, etc. offered in Maroon advertisements must be available to all students without restrictions as to race, religion, and national origin.

The deadline for classified ads is 12 noon on Wednesdays. Ads must be brought to the Maroon office, Reynolds Club 202. No classified ads will be accepted by phone.

Instruction

Voice training for speech by teacher with experience from leading European and American schools. DO 3-3710, Mrs. Franzen.

Personals

Partially blind student is in need of volunteer reading. If interested please call Bob Gryfinski, Burton-Judson. If off campus, MI 3-6000.

For Sale

IM? Chevrolet, green sedan, R&H. Very clean, good running condition. $100. Ted Greiner, BU 8-9870.

Zeiss Super Ikonta coupled range finder. F3.8 Tessar Compur. Rapid sell or trade for coaxial speaker. J. Matras, NE 8-0068.

Friday, October 1

Business club meeting, a reception for new and old students and their guests. Phi Gamma Delta house, 5615 University Avenue, 5-7 p.m.

Business club meeting to exchange books for the business school courses. Second floor Haskell Common Room, 10 a m. - 6 p.m. Donation requested.

Sabbath services and fireside discussion, B'nai B'rith Hillel Foundation, 5715 Woodlawn Ave. Services at 7:45 p.m. followed by Fireside discussion.

Yom Kippur Services at 6:30 p.m. 9:30 a.m. on Thursday through sundown.

Saturday, October 2

Open house for entering and returning students, an introduction to the facilities of Ida Noyes. 7-10 p m.

Sunday, October 3

University religious service, Rockefeller Chapel 1 1 a.m. The Reverend Wallace W Robbins, President, Meadville Theological School.

Carillon recital. Rockefeller Chapel, 4 pm. Frederick Fahrner, student carillonneur, University of Michigan.

Student Representative Party caucus, Ida Noyes, 7:30 p.m.

University glee club's first rehearsal followed by a buffet supper and meeting. Blaine H 7, 4:30-6 p.m.

Monday, October 4

Astronomical society meeting, discussion of year's activities. New students welcome. Ryerson 352,

7:30 p m.

Motion picture: The Bicycle Thief (Italian), International House, 8 p.m. Admission 45 cents.

ISL caucus, in Judson library at 7:30 p.m.

Tuesday, October 5

Young Socialist League meeting, first in a discussion series. Ida Noyes, 8 p.m.

Lecture: The Reverend Francis Burrill, Bishop of Chicago, The Religion in University Thinking. Ida Noyes Library, 9 p.m.

Wednesday, October 6

Carillon recital, Rockefeller chapel, 4:30 p.m. James R Lawson, chapel carillonneur.

Physics club meeting, Eckhart 209, 7:30 p.m.

English country dancing, Cloister club, Ida Noyes, 8-10 pm. Instruction for beginners; wear rubber-heeled shoes.

Sailing club meeting, arrangements will be made for the forthcoming regattas. East Lounge, Ida Noyes, 7:30 p.m.

Thursday, October 7

Lecture: Jacques Maritain, "Tolerance: Its Meaning and Practical Implication. Social science 122, 4 p.m.

Physics colloquium. Professor W. Hei-* senberg, Director, Max Planck Institute, Gottingen, West Germany.

Meson Production. Eckhart 133, 4:30 p.m.

Motion Picture: The Late George Apley (American), International

Calendar Lists

UC Events

All i m p o r t a n t University events are listed by the Maroon in the weekly calendar. In addition, any recognized student organization may list its meetings and activities in the calendar.

Student organizations that wish to list events in the calendar must fill the necessary information on for m s which are available in the Maroon office.

The deadline for listing In the calendar is noon of the Wednesday preceding publication. Events are listed up to one week in advance.

— OPEN ALL NIGHT — OPEN ALL NIGHT —

X 0
>—• Z
<

Midnight urge!

LARGE EGGS — CRISP BACON

TOAST — POTATOES

49

i Omar's

I

— OPEN ALL NIGHT — OPEN ALL NIGHT —

House, 8 p m. 35 cents.

NAACP meeting, discussion on notional and campus functions, Gerhard Meyer, associate professor of economics. Ida Noyes East Lounge, 7:30 p.m.

Friday, October 8

Lecture: Professor Heisenberg, Problems in the Theory of Elementary Particles. Eckhart 133, 2:30 p m.

Motion Picture: Lavender Hill Mob (British). Social science 122, 7:15 and 9:30 p.m.

Chancellor's reception for all students in the University, Ida Noyes, 8:30 p.m. Sponsored by Student Union, Interclub Council, and Interfraternity Council.

THAT WAS NO GOOD-BYE PRESENT, DOBBIN

Donated by a friend of Ed

X

55th & University h

Rug, braided oval, about 9x6, like new Only $15. Call DO 3-3710.

Modern sofa-bed, matching lounge chair, light wood trim, reasonable. ST 3-2258.

Photographic Enlarger. Elwood 214x3’4 with condenser system and f 4.5 lens. Best offer. Joe Wolf, ES 5-1615.

LM NOW KING SIZE

Brand new Remington Razor, duplicate gift. Sells for over $30. Bargain at $20. Call BO 8-4036.

Services

OR REGULAR

Resuscitate your old pigskins’ Quality football lacing. Special rate for Pep dub members. Contact Cohen, c/o Maroon.

Local moving express service to and from depots. Rates reasonable. 1309 E 60th. John Sutcliffe.

Mathematics. Instruction to fit needs of individual or group. Soglin, ST 2-6727.

Portraiture. Any imaginative photography. Highest quality. Low price, quick service. Call now. Joe Wolf. ES 5-1615.

For Rent

Two furnished rooms In Zeta Beta Tau Aunex, 5749’2 Woodlawn. $30 month per person MU 3-9825.

Wonted

Old opera records. Buy or trade. John Miller, MU 4-9825.

Room for male student, kitchen privileges. $6 per week. DO 3-0338, 6134 Greenwood.

Congenial young woman to share modern apartment. New building near campus. MU 4-0342.

Young man or woman to sell advertising for the Chicago Maroon. Experience preferred but not necessary. Ten per cent commission. Call MI 3-0800, Ext. 1009, afternoons.

Student to train as copy-writer. Also one layout man. No experience necessary but aptitude helpful. Call MI 3-0800, Ext. 1009 afternoons.

House for Sale

Kenwood. 2-story white painted brick carriage house of unique charm and construction. Ground floor — livingdining room (36x16) with fireplace, large terrace, compact kitchen, study, furnace-utili^v room, ^ bath, shop, tool shed Many unusual built-in features, automatic oil hot water heat. Second floor—4 distinctive bedrooms, 2 baths. Much storage and closet space. House well set back behind white picket fence on lot 60x100. Attractively landscaped, trees, shrubs, flowers. Merlon bluegrass lawn. Call FA 4-0783.

Much

1367 E. 57th ST.

20%

DISCOUNT on all Imprinted Christmas Cards until October 15th

It's the FILTER that Counts and L&M has the Best!

L&Ms have already won the quickest, most enthusiastic nation-wide acceptance a cigarette ever had. Now, L&M comes to you in king-size, too the same great cigarette — at the same lotv price as regular.

In either size — only L&M Filters give you real full-flavored smoking enjoyment-plus the Miracle Tip — the effective filtration you need. You get much more flavor — much less nicotine — a light and mild smoke. Remember, it’s the filter that counts ... and L&M has the best!

Buy L&Ms king-size or regular.

JUST WHAT THE DOCTOR ORDERED’

DM- AMERICA’S HIGHEST QUALITY FILTER CIGARETTE

IVHW * Mw lw Ok