Magazine salesman arrested;

30 students buy subscriptions

by Warren Roy Spachner

Arrested last Thursday night for alleged fraudulent solicitations of subscriptions to Newsweek magazine from students in various dormitories was Charles Harris, of the Hayes Hotel, located at University Avenue and 64th Street. Harris was arrested by John Clifford of the campus police and turned over to the Hyde Park police. He was booked on open charges pending investigation and was released on bail.

The usual procedure would have been to prosecute Harris for trespassing, since it is necessary for any non-student soliciting on campus, to get a permit from the administration. When asked about the charges to be preferred against Harris, the Hyde Park Police refused to comment.

Trustee speaks at convocation

David Rockefeller, UC trustee, will be guest speaker at the winter quarter convocation, to be held Friday, March 19, in Rockefeller Chapel.

The subject of Rockefeller’s address is unknown at the present time.

Convocation services, to be held on the Sunday preceeding the convocation, will be conducted by Charles W. Gilkey, dean emeritus of the Chapel and professor emeritus of the federated theological faculty, who will speak on “Life's Second-bests.”

About 170 students will receive degrees at the ceremony.

Harris had, according to the best facts available, solicited sub University of Chicago, March 12, 1954 ^fc*., 31

Forum to debate Indian students

by Robert Quinn

The Debate in Progress sign which usually hangs on the door of the Student Forum office will be moved April 1 at 8 p.m. to Soc. Sci 122 when a debate team from Bombay and Jaipur, India, will compete with a team of selected UC debaters.

The subject of the debate for which the unusually large turnout is anticipated is''Resolved: Indian Neutrality Is Necessary for an

Understanding Between East and West.” This particular topic is one of eight which the Indian team has been discussing during its Institute of International Education sponsored tour qf this country.

The debate will be divided into three parts. Each member will be afforded ten minutes in which to state his arguments supporting his team’s position on the issue. Following this each of the four participants will be given five minutes in which to give rebuttals. The debate will close with a question and answer session between the audience and the debaters.

Chicago team chosen

The two Q|an Chicago team is being chosen in a campus-wide contest for team positions. Applicants have been asked to give a

Reduced rates given students by John Stocks Travel Service

Special reduced rates will be offered by the John Stocks Travel Service to any group of three students going to the same destination during the interim. Reduction rates will range from 20 to 25 per cent provided the students will leave

and return together.

The Travel Service is als J offering reduced rates for students who plan to go to New York City. The reduced traveling rates will be good only if a group of 25 or more take advantage of this offer. The plan offered stipulates that the students must be traveling together. However, they may return individually if they desire provided that they are back by April 5.

scriptions from approximately solicited by Harris as well as those thirty students living in Snell, solicited by any other of our Hitchcock, International House, agents are covered by a bond Zeta Beta Tau fraternity, the Bur- which’ guarantees delivery of all ton-Judson dormitories, and the subscriptions solicited, provided Chicago Theological Seminary ^hat those who paid for their subdormitory. Latest estimate of the scriptions still retain their reamount of money paid to Harris ce*P^s* Compton then stated from for at a min- the Prices Quoted him as those imum of about $125, Channing Lushbough, house head of Hitchcock Hall said.

Arrested in Hitchcock

Harris was arrested in Hitchcock Hall, where for the fourth time in two quarters he had solicited subscriptions. At the time of his arrest he produced credentials which showed him to be an independent agent of the Associated

Trade Press. It was the variations paid to Harris by students, that in price asked by Harris for the none of the students had been same type of subscription of gypped.

Newsweek that originally brought Compton asked the MAROON Harris’ solicitations to the atten- to send him a list of all the names tion of the authorities. of all students solicited for sub John T. Compton, manager of scriptions. This list was to include the Associated Trade Press, all of their names, the numbers of reached by phone call said, “Har- their receipts, the amounts asked ris is a bonafide independent and paid for their subscriptions, agent of the Associated Trade and the addresses of the students Press. Furthermore, subscriptions involved.

ten into the Code.”

Although Strozier did not make any specific suggestions,

fifteen minute argument on the subject of Indian neutrality and are to be judged by the Student Forum reviewing board. Winners in the campus-wide contest will receive an all-expense paid trip to the University of Wisconsin for the Western Conference Debate League gathering April 8-10. The two team positions have not at present been filled, but the four finalists are Lloyd Kero, Milt Kotler, Ed Bottesman, and Ward Wright.

The two Indian team members are Rameschandra P. Sirkar and Mrigendra Kumar Chaturvedi. Sirkar, a twenty-one-year-old honor student from Elphinstone College. Bombay, divides his time between studying economics, debating, and playing chess; he describes his politics as “entirely theoretical.” Chaturvedi, a law

The “Pacemaker,” which will leave on Friday, March 19, has been designated as the train which the students will use. Departure time will be either 3 p.m. from the La Salle Street Station or 3:14 p.m. from the Englewood Union Station. 63rd and State.

The regular round trip coach fare from Chicago to New York City with a reserved seat is $52.25

Sae "Travel Service," page 4

A preliminary list made up through information already at hand has already been sent to Mr. Compton. All students who have subscribed ore urged to check the duplicate list in the MAROON office; any subscriber whose name has been omitted from the list, should send the required information on to Mr. Compton.

Mrigendra Kumar Chaturvedi student, debater, and cricket player, holds a BA an LLB and an MA degree and is currently studying law at Maharaja College in Jaipur.

Touring exchange students

As part of an international exchange plan Sirkar and Chaturvedi are touring the United States while two American students make the rounds of Indian colleges. The Indian students have already covered over a dozen universities on the east coast and after the UC debate will move to Northwestern and various southern schools. Some of the other subjects to be debated in the United States and India are “World Government Is Necessary for World Peace,” “Equality Is Not Necessary to Democracy,” “The Future of the World Lies in Asia,” and “Plenty Is More Dangerous Than Poverty.”

“Sponsorship of such debates as the Indian-American one is just

Smoke arouses Kelly students and confusion rei^ptsstybrelite

As smoke filled the third floor of Kelly Hall MB#’Tuesday night, the fire engines came and wenf; but the fire,never arrived. With confusion reigning supreme^'irtany girls were sure that they were going to be out in the cold, but late reports indicate that they are all still in their rooms.

Ingredients included a hot plate, a trunk, a ten-dollar book, plenty of smoke, but no

flames. Acting out the plot non-existunt flames, the informwere an absent-minded girl on ant rushed down to inform the third floor of Kelly, an alarmed resident of the smoky room, who girl on the same floor and plenty promptly fainted.

of firemen. When three fire trucks arrived

According to sources close to to do their bit, the firemen arrived the incident, a hot plate (used in at the door with axes held high to violation of the lease) was left chop their way in. The firemen on when one of the third floor soon realized that smoke, was all residents left her room. A short that existed and after a -few aptime later another resident of the propriate remarks,''withdrew. As floor, smelling smoke, rushed into one of the residents of the floor the room. The hotplate had burned later remarked, there never were through the trunk on which it was so many men running around on situated and burned the book Kelly’s upper floors before, which was also on the trunk. The resident of the room, when Smoke was everywhere. The questioned by the MAROON, said, alarmed girl immediately phoned “It was really so minor. It’s not a for the fire department. story!” When asked if that was

As fire trucks were on their because Kelly Hall is still standway to put out the smoke and the ing, she refused comment.

Code is" overdefined/ re-examine, says Dean

“I am in favor of a total re-examination of the Student Code,” said Robert M. Strozier, dean of students, in an interview Wednesday. “The present Code tries to spell out too many things. The rules are overdefined. Too much was writhe mentioned the Student Representative Party case recently before the Student Court. Because of. what he termed, “overdefined rules,” the party got into difficulties by passing propaganda pamphlets in illegal places on campus. •

Strozier felt that the attitude implicit in the Code was not in keeping with the “spirit of the University.” As it now stands, he

Rameshchondro P. Sirkar

one of many activities being carried on by Student Forum during the current season,” said Terry

Sandalow, director of the froum. “Actually more of our activities are done off campus than on campus. At present Student Forum is participating in intercollegiate tournaments, sending discussion groups to high schools, women’s clubs, and fraternal organizations throughout Chicago, and coaching university students in forensic techniques.”

SE sent four teams

This year Student Forum has sent teams of four or more debaters to nation wide tournaments at Purdue and Penn State universities. Such tournaments feature four grueling series of debates which run from nine in the morning to late at night. At the end of such tournaments prizes are awarded either to whole teams or indiivdual team members.

said, the Code is “not consonant with this spirit, which is identified with such academic informality as non-compulsory class attendance. “A few fundamental things are necessary, however,” he continued, “to define the relations of campus organizations with each other.”

Strozier said that the founders of the Student Code had been legalistically oriented. “I am not,” he continued, “this legalism

throws me. I would prefer a more relaxed relationship.”

Commenting on the Strozier proposals, Audrey Galyon, ISL majority leader, said, “We are always willing to change the Code, depending on the changes. The details of the code protect the rights of organizations by setting forth the limits in which they may operate, and the specific ways and areas in which the administration may supervise them.”

Eli Stein, chairman of the Committee on Recognized Student Activities. has submitted a suggestion for revision of the Student Code to William Birenbaum, director of student activities. Stein’s main suggestion was a proposal to “make it easier for student organizations to pass printed material and petitions.” Said Stein of the Strozier proposals, “I am very pleased.”

Krebs discusses body chemistry, energy changes

Nobel prize winner Hans A. Krebs is lecturing here on “Some Aspects of the Energy Transformations in Living Matter.’” The last two of the three lecture series are planned for 4 p.m.. March 17 and 31, in Billings P-117. Subject matter for the talks is an expansion and discussion of recent laboratory experimentation concerning his world-famous “Krebs Cycle.”

Krebs’ discovery contributed towards an explanation of the process by which energy is made available for bodily functions through the breakdown of car bohydrates.

A fellow of the Royal Society, Krebs is also a professor of biochemistry at the university, Sheffield, England.

This will be the lost issue of the MAROON for this quarter. Our next edition will appear on April 2, 1954. Goodby until then. Good luck on the quarteries. Page 2

" March 12, 1954

Hinton visions

bright future" for China; Catch partners in crime

cites economic and educational reform

following burglary, forgery

These Chinese people,” stated

William Hinton in a lecture given in Law North last

Friday, “have a healthy confidence in their future.” With an increased standard of living, recent land reforms and rapid growth of industry, the vast majority of the population heartily supports its new government, he declared.

Hinton, an agronomist who just returned from six years in China, reported on his experiences and observations in a lecture sponsored by the Student Representative Party. Hinton

Two youthful self-admitted dope addicts who posed as a University of Chicago student and a Billings Hospital attendant have confessed to a series of burglaries and check forgeries in the University community. Several Hyde Park merchants were victimized by the pair.

They were captured last week, when the young man, 21, was recognized by the clinical

volunteered to go to China as a tractor instructor and technician with the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration (UNRRA) in 1947. A few months after his arrival in the country the program*was abandoned, but he chose to remain for what he called “a grandstand seat lor a major historical event.”

Hinton began the lecture by describing the area he knew best, which was under Communist control even before his arrival, a large state farm in Northern China where he was employed as an instructor during most of his stay. He cited some statistics of farm living, stating that the standard of living and leisure hour occupations at this farm are comparable to those of industrial workers throughout China.

$10 to $15 a month would be an average wage, with skilled workers getting as high as $50. However food only costs from $4 to $8 per month, and housing and medicine are usually free, Hinton said. The working day is eight hours

long, six days a week. On the farm where Hinton stayed there were 1,200 full time workers, mostly peasants, students, ex-soldiers and ex-bank clerks.

Enthusiasm for education great

In this farm, as all over the country, the enthusiasm for education was tremendous, Hinton declared. “Most people who were illiterate when joining the farm learned to read and write within a year. Almost everyone was studying something at the night school and even the milking schedule was altered in order to allow the milkers to attend classes.”

Turning to China’s life, Hinton remarked agricultural resources

economic that her are tre Wealth not

advertising

“Although advertising has been blamed for causing our cultural • neurosis, there is no evidence to support this claim,” declared George Brown, professor of marketing, in a talk last Friday.

His discussion of “Advertising’s Contribution to the Cultural Neurosis,” was the first in a series of Friday afternoon discussions sponsored by the Business Club in Haskell Hall.

Defining cultural neurosis as a value judgment of the good life incorporating people's desires to be “big shots,” Brown contended that while advertisers might want to make people culturally neurotic for a profit, they are unable to do it. What advertisers do is wait until they find an area where people want to impress their neighbors and then slant their advertising to take advantage of an existing situation.

“Social scientists in general and college professors in particular place too much value on advertising,” said Brown. Advertising which is not supported by the society cannot be effective. During the discussion Brown admitted that advertising might tend to further this cultural neurosis, but only to the extent that the society deemed it advisable that it be furthered.

Brown said that probably the biggest factor causing a cultural neurosis in America is our society’s emphasis upon the ownership of material wealth.

The coffee hour discussion series will continue today in the Haskell Hall lounge. Professor H. J. Leavitt will talk about “Groups vs. Individuals in Industrial Organizations.”

 

mendous and only beginning to be tapped. “There is absolutely no fear of overpopulation or lack of sufficient food, since the possibility of increasing yields with scientific methods is tremendous. The government has said that the amount of land now under cultivation could easily be doubled,” Hinton stated.

Economy both private and public

China’s economy is mixed, he continued, with light industry in private hands and heavy industry, with a few notable exceptions such as the chemical industry, in government hands. The railroads always have been nationalized; however there are two competitive bus lines, one private, one state owned. Both lines run buses made of converted Japanese trucks which burn wood for fuel. “Stores are both state and privately owned, with the state-owned stores usually taking the lead in lowering prices, which have fallen steadily since 1950,” Hinton said. There were several laughs when Hinton described how the American blockade has been a great boon to Chinese light industry, which for the first time is free of foreign

competition.

In the question period which followed his lecture, Hinton was asked about Chinese education. He told of the “tremendous drive to wipe out illiteracy in the next 10 years, based on a new phonetic alphabet. All students,” he declared, “are completely subsidized. However, due to the shortage of schools, education is highly competitive. There are 10 jobs waiting for every graduate.”

Peasants now know freedom

When asked about the extent of civil liberties in China, Hinton described how the villages in the past had been ruled by a few cliques, with the law never reaching the peasants. “Children were taken in payment of debts and slavery existed in the countryside. With the establishment of the new China, immediately after land reforms, village councils were established and democratic elections held.” These village councils elect county councils, who in turn appoint county judges. “For the first time the peasants knew freedom,” Hinton said. He added, “there is no longer any conscription in China, the army being composed entirely of volunteers.”

Asked about relations between Russia and China, Hinton declared, “They are close, but China is certainly not a satellite.” Russian technicians, tractor men and combine men have come to teach and then gone home. There is much political study, but it is not Russians who teach this, he added.

Hinton was asked about possibilities for trade with America, and answered that $6 billion a year is spent on industrialization and agriculture by the Chinese government. There would be a welcome market for American tractors, ball bearings, X-ray equipment and railroad equipment, he concluded.

photographer At Billings, Lawrence Whitson. The youth had previously stolen two valuable German photographic lenses.

When the thief was seized he was wearing a spotless white “Doctor’s” jacket and carrying an empty box. He in turn implicated his woman accomplice, also 21, and after two days of questioning the pair admitted the larcenies and check forgeries.

The police said that the youth stole purses of two University students and gave the girl the official University identification card of one of the students, Suzanne Friedmann.

Petition: keep Rago, Caspari

Mead House is sponsoring

a

petition and an appeal asking for the retainment of two assistant professors recently dismissed from the college, and for the revision of the statute under which they were dismissed.

The professors, Fritz Caspari and Henry Rago, fall under a provision of the University statutes which says that an assistant professor must be promoted to the rank of associate professor at the end of his six year contract or else be dropped from the faculty.

Residents of Mead House expected to have several hundred signatures on the petition by today. They will present the appeal to Chancellor Kimpton this morning.

Concerning the petition Don Levine, assistant resident head of Mead, stated, “Many people on being asked to sign the petition have shown a distressing reluctance to have anything to do with petitions. This seemed to reflect the general anxiety which has come to attend almost any social action throughout our country.”

When a flood of bad checks endorsed by “Suzanne Friedmann” hit Hyde Park businesses, police sought out the “real” Miss Friedmann and learned that her wallet and ID card had been taken.

Miss Friedmann said, “My wallet was stolen at a Student Gow ernment meeting during a ten minute recess several weeks ago. Nothing important was in it except my I.D. card. Apparently one of the couple, posing as a student, stole the wallet. Arlene Peterson, another UC student, had her purse taken also, but fortunately her wallet was in her coat pocket.”

At least 15 bad checks, for about $80 apiece, have been traced and police added, “we expect more to come in.”

The pair would buy an article and make an initial “effort” to pay for it in cash and then “discover” they had not brought enough money along.

They would pay with forged and stolen payroll checks made out to Suzanne Friedmann from the Goldstein Millinery Company, 118 South Michigan. The checks were drawn on the First National Bank of Chicago.

Police said the pair used the money to satisfy their “habit.” "The more they stole, the more they used,” said one officer.

The young man was apprehended when Lawrence Whitson, a Billings clinical photographer, noticed him lounging near the photographic supply shelves at Billings. Whitson recalled seeing someone resembling him near the lab when two valuable German photographic lenses disappeared.

He pursued the white coated man but could not catch him. Whitson, however, notified hospital and University officials and alerted them. The thief returned the next day and walked into the arms of waiting University officials.

gives you a close-up on comfort...shows you why

Arrow Shorts

Students Back Arrow Shorts

in Big Swing to Comfort

Dancing Every Friday Night

AT

FLYNN’S BALLROOM 3212 W. 63rd St.

SPECIAL: ST. PATRICK'S DAY DANCE March 17

xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx

Your favorite waistband style in choice of pattern and color

Arrow T-Shirts $1.25

Arrow Athletic Shirts $1.50

Arrow Knitted Briefs $1.00

shrink more than 1%

never bind

Contoured seat no center seam to cut or bind

• Roomy pleated crotch

"Sanforized"® cottons won't

Students report that in “taking a stand on comfort”, they enthusiastically endorse Arrow Shorts. Arrows are designed for ease with such features as no binding center seanfs. Wide range of fabrics, styles and colors now at all Arrow dealers,

Ml/t OW

 TRADE ® MARK

.Chicot* - Evanston - Oak Park

Gary - Joliet - Alton

SHIRTS * THS * UNDERWEAR HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTSWEAR March 12, 1954

THE CHICAGO MAROON

Page 3

Strozier settles relationship between SG and l-F council

Student Government jurisdiction concerning relations with Inter-Fraternity Council and the individual fraternities has been settled by a letter from Robert M. Strozier, dean of students, to Gilbert Dahlberg, Inter-Fraternity Council (IFC) president.

According to Dean Strozier’s letter (dated March 1,1954), areas falling within SG’s province in its relations with IFC and involving the fraternities include:

1. Discriminatory clauses in limit or prohibit membership because of race, religion, color, or national origin.

2. Regulations involving the use of campus facilities.

Dean Strozier clarified SG jurisdiction by saying, “We cannot force campus fraternities to pledge students who are Jewish, Christian, or Negro. However, we can refuse to recognize campus organizations who retain selectivity clauses in their national constitutions.” Citing Zeta Beta Tau as a fraternity which has success Channing Club begins lectures

A series of lectures sponsored by the Channing Club and the First Unitarian Church will be continued Thursday at 7:30 p.m. in the William Wallace Fenn

House, 5638 Woodlawn Avenue. Coffee will be served at 7:30 p.m. and the lecture and discussion will begin at 8 p.m.

The lecture, which is the third in a series of six on Unitarianism, is on “The Emotional Depths in Religion.” The first two lectures

in the series dealt with the topics “Why and How Unitarianism Began” and “Unitarian Conceptions of Familiar Religious Teachings.” On succeeding Thursday the series will continue with “The Unitarian Conception of the Church” (•March 25); “The Role of Worship in the Religious Group” (April 1); and “The Adequacy of Unitarianism to the Needs of Man Today” (April 8).

BOHLEO under authority of the coca cola company by The Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Chicago, Inc.

^Ca U” It a ragiit.red trade mark, ©1953, THE COCA COLA COMPANY

the constitutions of campus s fully eliminated its selectivity clause from its national constitution, he said, “Whether ZBT wilt now pledge a student who is non Jewish is not our concern.” He pointed out that recognition will not be denied campus religious organizations such as Hillel Foundation. Calvert Club, and Channing Club.

The letter also stated the areas which will remain under IFC's province in its relations with the individual fraternities and the dean of students’ office. These are:

1. The qualifications and condi tions for rushing, pledging, and initiation of members, subject to the single exception concerning the Michigan Plan.

2. The social and financial regulations pertaining to frater Wright discusses UN efforts toward peace;

to hold conference in

'55 to revise charter

“Although up to date the effort to peace through the UN has not been too successful, it is the only way we have,” stated Quincy Wright, professor of political science, in the final lecture of the series, “Your Choice: War or Peace,” held in East Lounge of International House at 8 p.m., last Wednesday.

Wright asserted that” the history of the United Nations is not

lent organizations, which

nities.

3. The residential standards of the house.

4. The fraternal intramural program.

Qualifications and conditions for rushing, pledging, and initiation of members must, however, coincide with Part 1, Section 5 of the Student Code.

“The basis of fraternity membership is friendship,” Dean Strozier added, “We cannot prohibit student organizations from choosing their members in this way.”

This letter was written after a

series of conferences between the dean of students and an IFC committee to determine more exactly the relationship between the Council and Student Government. “As far as I’m concerned this matter is settled,” Strozier commented.

too encouraging, since tension and hostilities remain: “the world is not tranquilized.” He gave a historical recapitulation of cooperative peace efforts, indicating the point of and reason for failure of each. The establishment of the UN, he said, is the most effective means, thus far, of achieving peace. “There can only be international organization through international cooperation.”

The UN provides for more intensive internal organization; however, the 20th century is still the most bloody in man’s history. Old peace methods ineffectual

Wright termed such peace measures as peace by empire, universal religion, and. balance of power as “impracticable.” Peace by empire, he said, would not work, for “we would not want to be ruled by the Soviets, and they would not want to be ruled by us”; the ideological strife of universal religion would cause more havoc; and democracy cannot function under the political organization of balance of power.

^fte ^i/^ttm

MIDWAY 3-4433

HARRY A. ZISOOK & SONS

University District Renting Office

MAYFLOWER HOTEL 6125 KENWOOD AVENUE

Let us help you

GET OUT OF THE ROOMING HOUSES AND SUBSTANDARD BUILDINGS IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD For the convenience and accommodation of the Students, Faculty and Employees of the University we have opened a University District Renting Office to serve you in obtaining better housing. .

Come in and let us know what your requirements are so that we may assist you.

AVAILABLE NOW AND/OR APRIL 1st

Hotel rooms with private bath and shower Sgl.—$8 per wk.; dbl.—$12 per wk.

Hotel apts. with switchboard and maid service

/ 1 rm. apt. at $90 per mo.

2 rm. apt. at $107.50 per mo.

SYt room unfurnished apt. at $1/7.00

office hours 9 a.m. to 5 p.m Monday thru Friday THERE IS NO CHARGE FOR THIS SERVICE main office

HARRY A. ZISOOK & SONS

Real Estate

1711 E. 71st PL 2-5960

Serving Chicago since 1907

Loyola newspaper suspended for ungentlernanly criticisim

“Ungentlemanly attacks on the co-eds and certain administrators of the university” have resulted in the temporary suspension of the Loyola News, Loyola University student newspaper.

Two hours after the controversial issues of the paper were released on the Lewis Towers and Lake Shore campuses;

Loyola officials criticized the paper’s editorial staff for their “ungentlemanly attacks.” The suspension order was issued by the Rev. Laurence Lynch, dean of students. Lynch has charge of the Loyola Union, which supervises campus publications.

The questionable matter was an unsigned letter to the editor which described the “rat race” of women students to “land that MAN at all costs.” Phillip J. Mc Guire, in his second week as editor-in-chief, substantiated the staff’s position in the matter and maintained that they “had no malicious intent in printing the letter,” thinking it would be taken humorously.

Mc Guire stated that he expected a second forum letter to be taken in the same vein. In it, two of the paper’s regular columnists, Frank Covey, Jr., and Richard J. Troy, wrote a “columnists’ declaration of independence.” They chided “repeated injuries and usurpa Maintaining the effectiveness of the UN, he explained its basic efforts in two fields: collective security—its attempts to prevent war or conditions leading to war— and economic and social cooperation—the improvement of basic conditions, such as health, poverty, and illiteracy.

Collective security vital measure

Wright disagreed with Percy Corbett, professor of political science at Princeton University, who took the “inadvisable approach” that economic and social cooperation should be placed before collective security. Both efforts, he stated, must, of course, be kept up; however, collective security is the more important.

There are two methods of collective security, he explained: coordination of forces to prevent aggression and specific settlements of disputes, through mediation, conciliation, and arbitration. To substantiate the value of mediation as the most salient method, he cited Ralph Bunche’s success through mediation in the Palestin PHOTOGRAPHERS

1171 EAST 55th STREET

tions” and “establishment of an absolute tyranny over these columnists.”

The “attacks” on “certain administrators,” also cited in the suspension decree was interpreted to mean Troy’s sports column in which the basketball coach, George Ireland, was criticized for “lacking the personality and tact necessary for a college coach.” Troy said he particularly had objected to “constant yelling at the team from the bench.”

Indignation from the Rev. Cletus F. Hartman, athletic director, and Coach Ireland over previous articles .was noted in another sports page story in the Thursday edition.

The Loyola News is distributed free to 7,500 students. With the exception of the editor, who receives $450 a year, students work on the paper without compensation or academic credit.

ian dispute. “Developing a personal mediator skill is invaluable,” he urged. This, the UN is working to develop.

Conference to revise Charter

Plans are being arranged for a new conference to be held in 1955 to revise the UN Charter. There is need for revision, Wright felt, in the voting powers of the nations. “Weight voting,” he thought, would be more effective than the present System, whereby e #c h member nation receives a single vote, regardless of population. However, he advised that the conference might be dangerous for the development of the UN, since people are already building up their hopes, which may result in disillusion. Wright, smiling, expressed the feeling of some that “if we revise the charter, we will then have a perfect world.” He did say that although the actual changes effected by the conference may be few (because of the present vote distribution >. it might be an agency for better understanding.

Following his hour talk, Wright called for a question answer period, at which time he was queried on Russia’s position in the UN, the UN as an information agency, and UN efforts in the cold war.

Discuss slum

clearance

Slum clearance and racial segregation in Chicago housing will be the subject of a city-wide housing conference Sunday March 14, at 7 p.m. in the assembly hall of International House. The meeting will be open to the public.

Speakers at the conference, which is sponsored by the Lochinvars, an independent Negro boys’ club, will include Robert E. Merriam, aiderman of the fifth ward; Miss Elizabeth Wood of the Chicago Housing Authority; Oscar C. Brown, real estate broker; D. E. Mackelman, deputy housing coordinator; and Robert R. Taylor, former chairman of the Chicago Housing Authority, who will serve as the chairman of the conference.

WHERE THE U of C MEETS TO EAT 5ge 4

THE CHICAGO MAROON

March 12, 1954

Issued once weekly by the publisher. The Chicago Maroon, at the publication office, 5706 South University Avenue, Chicogo 37, Illinois. Telephones: Editorial Office, Midway 3-0800, Ext. 1010; Business and Advertising Offices, Midway 3-08 00, Ext. 1009. Distributed free of charge, and subscriptions by moil, $3 per year. Business Office hours: 1 to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday.

Arthur Brown Richard E. Ward editor-in-chief managing editor

News editors: Noomi Birnboum, Allen Jonger

News Feature editor: Nellie Stoneman

Feature editor: Daniel Queen

Sports editor: Paul A. Hoffman

Copy editor: Joy Burboch

Advertising manager: Revo Brown

Production manager: Joanna Herlihy

Cartoonist: Ray Nelson

Copy staff: Jerry Ex, Pom Brown, Shirley Long

Photographers^ Joe Wolf, Richard Kluckholn

Editorial staff: Robert Bloch, William Brandon, Poul Breslow, Sondra Epstein, Leslie Foster, Suzanne Friedman, Ralph B. Hirsch, Roberto Hopkins, Arlene Kramer, Jon Moide, C. Roy Maisch, Robert Mc Cluskie, Spike Pinney, David Schlessinger, Mitchell Slein, Judy Smith, Fronz Snyder, Horry Whiteley, Neol Mermoll, Justin Johnson, Wolf Roder, Stephen Cohen, Jack Burboch, Frank G. Ternenyi, Richord Herwitt, Davis Dobrow, Brino Bailin, Diane Epstein, Bob Quinn, Brina Jaffee, Elaine Pomper, Stephen Cohen, Warren Spochner, Miriam Garfin, John Twomey, Rene Jonas, Al Fortier ' 

Letters Praises Quartet

The practice of haranguing reviewers of concerts is not one which is close to my heart, but in fairness to the Vegh string quartet, a few remarks regarding last week’s review are in order.

There are certainly performers who trail so far behind one’s standards, and whose errors of interpretation are so blatant, that an organized succession of negative comments is more than sufficient to deal with them. But a group which presented the most ambitious program of the year, and executed it with unanimity, sensitivity, and more than adequate technique, deserves at least some specificity of comment.

For example, it is said that the slow movement of opus 127 sounded interminable. The greatest music critic of the nineteenth century, Robert Schumann, made much the same comment about this movement in singling it out for special praise in his articles on Beethoven. I can conceive of anyone who has no grasp of late Beethoven making such a comment in a derogatory sense, but in that case I would expect the reviewer to be honest enough to admit that it is the work and not the performance that leaves him cold. The complaint that the performance lost the forest for the trees is capable of some substantiation, if true, for the trees in this case are variations on a theme, and they are related to each other in a very definite way. If the reviewer has no concept of how the trees complement each other to build one of the most sublime forests in music, he should at least talk about one of the trees, or a few branches.

Bartok’s fourth quartet is the most difficult to perform of his six. Some comment on its structure, relationship of movements, effects of movements, and technical problems, should have been included.

The reviewer also missed the reason why the Brahms was not well performed. It could as well have been played by four kazoos. The duties are divided among the instruments without regard for their natural division of labor and incompatibilities. In addition it is an abominable piece of music, and it would be quite understandable if the players could not bear to rehearse it.

As for the quartet itself, they are one of the greatest I've heard.

Anyone who wishes to confirm this impression should listen to their recordings of all the Beethoven quartets on Haydn Society, which have just been released.

Fred Winsberg

Portraits by

LOUISE BARKER Photographer

145 7 E. 5 7th St. BU 1-0876

Socialists Unite

For many years I have met students who have said to me: "Why do you socialists always splinter into little groups, why don’t you all get together? If you did I might join you,” they claimed. Well, two weeks ago in New York City the two largest * socialist youth groups joined together in a new independent youth organization called the Young Socialist League (YSL). The new group is the outcome of many months of discussion between the Young Peoples Socialist League (YPSL), formerly the youth section of the Socialist Party and the Socialist Youth League (SYL) previously affiliated with the Independent Socialist League.

The new group re-emphasizes the traditional socialist concern over democracy and defines socialism as the democratizing of the m^ans of production and the control of production along with the fullest democratic political and social organization which this implies. We believe, further, that the only long run answer to the major problems facing us today (i.e. the only “realistic,” “practical” answer) must still be sought in socialism. The problem of the cold war cannot be answered by supporting either- of the present power blocs, as each is incapable of offering the rest of the world an answer to their real and immediate social and economic problems.

Of especial importance to youth, of course, is the issue of civil liberties and academic freedom. Most students today recognize the failures of both major parties to adequately concern themselves with this problem. Few have translated this disillusionment into political steps. We believe that a struggle must be made on the basis of absolute civil liberties, for all including Stalinists.

The YSL plans extensive activities, including a political conference in New York in July, a summer school in the fall, possibly in the midwest, and a weekly publication called the Challenge, which will appear as part of Labor Action. The national secretary of the YSL along with the editor of Challenge will be in Chicago in early April to talk to interested people.

Deborah W. Meier Ml 3-3666

EUROPE-$698 11 COUNTRIES

Soiling from New York, July 31st — Returning Sept. 10th FOR STUDENTS, TEACHERS and YOUNG ADULTS

42 Days — All Expense — Personally Escorted

European Grand Tour visiting England, Holland, Belgium, Luxembourg, Germany, Switzerland, Liechtenstein, Austria, Italy, Monte Carlo, France. Includes round-trip steamship on the one-class S. S. GROOTE BEER and S. S. SIBAJAK, all hotels, most meals, all sightseeig trains, taxis and even S. S. SIBAJAK, all hotels, most meals, all sightseeing trains, taxis and even

Write or Phone for Free Booklet No. 78

CARAVAN TOURS 220 s *•♦• *•' Ckica9° 4> ’”

VMHMVMR WEbster 9-3725

Originality stifled

After reading a number of controversial letters on •‘rah-rah boys,” “intellectual snobs’’ and “an insidious apathy in social activities” on the campus, I waited in vain for an editorial stand. Yet even the detailed admonitions of an alumnus, who plaintively concluded that “something is wrong” with the students here, didn’t move you to take a due position on these significant issues. I hope my opinions will have sufficient strength at least to move you to print them.

It is my belief that the prime objective of a worthy university is to promote academic pursuits. The opening lines of the University’s General Statement read: “The organization of the University of Chicago is unique.’ If this means that the university wishes to exist as an exemplary Institution of learning and inquiry, then it should not yield to unspirited and cowardly pressures and should persevere as a university, where the ideal of pursuit of knowledge can hold its optimum sway.

I may be permitted to indulge in a brief personal reference. I was first attracted to this university by an elaborate and also glowing account in a story, featuring Mr. Hutchins, published in Time magazine some years ago. The description which then impressed me considerably was the reference to UC students as “tense and intense.” The notion that one can be relaxed, “well - balanced” and “wholesome,” thoroughly enjoying life, and be still In a position to crave for excellence in learning is a popular rather than a discerning observation. While there are always some impressive exceptions, the recurrent fact is that so-called wholesomeness in character tends to stifle originality, encourage conformity and Inevitably produces mediocrity in thought.

To be more specific, I should like to state that in my three years’ experience here, which Is by no means exhaustive, I noticed some addiction to dogmatic thought and a blind radicalism by a number of students, nervously concerned with social and political problems. Legitimate as such a concern may be, it does well to remember that if the condition of neurosis is not regulated by elements of rational caution, forward looking open-mindedness and, above all, a critical self-examination, the neurotic may not only become mentally sterile, but still worse, hysterical. Moreover, true liberalism of spirit should transcend even such boundaries where personal fortunes are affected. For this reason we still awe those few men who, by virtue of such liberalism, could and can exercise substantial detachment in reasoning.

If there is anything “wrong” with some students, it is their assumption that personal deprivations and awareness of social and, or political injustices are grounds to justify counteractive radicalism in thought orientation. The impulse for reforms and social action should never be confused with the cumbersome task of acquiring basic knowledge. One reason why Kari Marx, another of the world's most outstanding neurotics, lacks depth of perception in his thought (the theory of Ueberbau and classless society), lor example, is the absence of the type of detachment described above. It is one thing to be stimulated by abject poverty and personal misfortunes and another to .be overwhelmed by them in the process of analyzing larger human problems.

Human nature still remains an evasive conundrum full of the vibrations of what Verblen termed “predatory temper.’’ We need more penetration, more Insights with greater consequences, and an unrelenting dedication to the objectives of pure scholarship. For this reason, not the pursuit of happiness as such, but ever-present tensions and personal sacrifices are and should be the signposts of struggle in the destinies of dedicated Inquirers. The ideal of pursuit of knoweldge has always had its high price. But its ultimate rewards are as priceless as that Ideal is genuine and pervasive. It was with reference to this pervasiveness that the Greeks called the forceful drive for creativity “daimonion.”

Current trends In higher education are revealing strange developments. Frequent discrepancies between enunciations of principles and actual conduct of educators are becoming deplorable realities to reckon with. On the other hand, a “great” university is claiming renown for having selected a distinguished and popular general as its president, and is generously continuing to bestow honorary degrees upon political figures prominent in International life. Also, the quest lor quick results, easy recognition and reward is making inroads in the social research centers of noted universities. In the same vein, the motive of attracting rather than engaging attention is gaining the upper hand in the conception and design of research problems. Perhaps one of the most unfortunate by-products of these trends is evident in the growing number of students whose inclinations to adapt to the research interests of influential professors seem to be only surpassed by their fearful preoccupations with “making a living.”

The extent to which a respectable university may overlook the hazards of a gradual debauchery from its raison d’etre in this harsh struggle, can only be measured with the sequel of risks it will continue to incur for convenience, but with self-deception.

Reverting to the specific issues at hand, I wish to terminate with a fervent hope. May the University of Chicago, which, alas, has no prerogative for immunity from self-deception, abide, with a minimum of equivocation, by its prime commitment to represent that for which it is destined—a durable bastion for exacting and disinterested scholarship.

Vahokn Dadrian

MAROON presumptuous

it may indeed be one function of a university newspaper to provide experience in certain types of composition, and criticism may be among them, but when this practice conflicts with other local institutions, the potential value of which is at least equal to that of the newspaper (as, for example, University Theatre), it is time seriously to examine the raison d'etre of the Newspaper Critic. Does this celebrated individual, in the event we have already seen or heard the production he is reviewing, presume to tell us what it was all about? There are resident hereabouts not a few serious students, presumedly devoting their lives to various branches of the arts, who are rather more qualified for such a task—if it must be performed — and who may be contacted through the appropriate departments without grave difficulty. Suppose, then, we are so timid as to be frightened away from a projected visit by The Critic’s disapprobation: has anybody really benefited? Unless, of course, it is the intention of the Editors to let any George, Jean, or Nathan protect us from unpleasantness. A perhaps more worthy use of this space would fill it with abstracts of what eminent scholars have written on the work and its author, leaving any judgments about the performance to us.

Joel Farber

Exhibit mistreated

R. H. M. ignored a lot of work which was worthy of mention but since most of it reposed on top of bookshelves, it is possible that he, (who seems by the tenor of his writing to be a small man), may not even have seen some of them, such as Natkins oil portrait. Of course it is obvious that he is inexperienced in judging pictorial arts, just as others on the staff seem to be about theater arts, music, etc. He made an obvious mistake in calling me a primitive. I couldn’t do one even if I wanted to which would have the point of view that the primitive artist has. I am a trained, practicing printmaker and entered as a University employee. I am sure that if a print like “Pigsville” which I included is good enough for the Museum of Modern Art it ought to be good enough for Mr. March.

As to the “forgery,” I don’t recall the album cover, but I do remember that one of the first pieces I did was a copy of a Chinese drawing. I was rather faint hearted then and only by doing a great deal of work, rather than talk, was I able to find out what I really wanted to do in art. I don’t think anyone who knew me as a student here would have expected me to become a painter or printer, especially after flunking history of art. It is not fair to so judge beginners or call their work which is done with real sincerity, “doodles” or “slick.” It .is just smart-alackness and lends a cheapness to the MAROON only topped by the SU handling of the exhibit.

The exhibition was' without precedent on this campus in lack

of respect for the artist or his work. The entry fees resembled a poll tax system and succeeded in frightening away a larger, more comprehensive show. On the afternoon of the deadline day there were TWO works submitted. The rest of us withheld our work and haggled them down. The dumped hanging was without excuse and was deeply felt by the artists who submitted. I would consider any future SU shows a physical risk to my work as well as a waste of time unless they correct themselves.

The jury was fair to a group numbering art institute graduates as well as people who had never done work before. I wish SU and R.H.M. had tried.

B. Sincloir

Review justified

I believe that Mr. Troobnick’s objections to Mr. Sciaky’s review of Murder in'the Cathedral are unduly harsh and not wholly justified.

His letter centers on the reviewer’s suggestion that the play was translated out of its original intention and fitted to the philosophy of Playwright’s Theatre. It has been stated rather widely that Playwright’s is motivated by the dramatic theories of Bert Brecht. The theater said as much in its newsletter for their last production, Brecht’s Three Penny Opera. Mr. Brecht is a humanist, antimctaphysical in theory and anticathartic in poetry and episodic in dramatic treatment.

Francis Fergusen in “Idea of a Theatre” discusses Murder with his usual deep insight. The lines of analysis head through traditions of rationalistic and passional theater to the Theological Mysticism of St. Augustine and the idea that true freedom and passage into the City of God is by perfect submission to the Divine Will. The play is built to cast a trance over its audience and produce in its tragic resolution spiritual rejoicing through earthly mourning.

The performance I saw was muscular, episodic, rather political than mystical; in which the tail end of the knight’s ironic humor quite wagged the hound of heaven.

Fred Wronovics

w

Travel Service...

(from page I )

plus a 15 per cent tax, but the special rate will be $46.05, including tax. If a “Pacemaker” reserved seat is desired from New York to Chicago, the same can be furnished at an additional charge of $1.15 including tax.

Early reservations are desirable to help determine space needs. For reservations, call or visit the John Stocks Travel Bureau located in the Administration Building on the main floor.

Eye Examinations Visual Training

Dr. Kurt Rosenbaum optometrist

1132 E. 55th Street HYde Park 3-8372 March I2 1954 Use Irish motif for Int House farewell party

Shamrocks and shillelaghs will highlight a farewell party for students who are leaving International House this quarter.

The party is to be held tomorrow at 8 p.m. in the women’s lounge of International House. In charge of the party is Beryl Carter, who will be assisted by a special committee of students and International House Association members in presenting a program of games, impromptu stunts, and dances.

As the time of the party is near St. Patrick’s Day, shamrocks, shillelaghs, and other traditional symbols of the Irish celebration will be used as decorations.

The women’s lounge of International House is reached by taking the elevator to the Women’s quarters at the west end of the building. The lounge is located on the third floor, near the elevator entrance.

“Powerful and compelling — one of the best productions — perhaps the very best" Kogan, Sun-Times — in —

Playwrights Theatre Club

THE

DYBBUK

MANDEL HALL

What you want most Chevrolet gives you first

Permanent peace is Israel’s objective; present tension harms all of Near East by Zahava Dudnik *

The problems and prospects of peace in the Near East were discussed by Abba Eban, ambassador of Israel to the US and permanent UN representative, last Monday, in Judd 126. Eban clarified Israel’s position on the tensions between his country and the Arab states. He emphasized the historical background, the physical and political geography, and the economic strife in the Near East.

Eban said that when the UN recommended the establishment of independence in all of Palestine, including a sovereign State of Israel, the Arab governments announced their intention to oppose that UN policy by armed force. In August, 1949, after two years of hostilities, armistice agreements endorsed by the Security Council were approved by Israel and the Arabs. However, Eban stated, Israel did not believe that agreements depending on military considerations with no background of normal diplomatic and economic relationships could assure more than a temporary stability. Present hostility in the Near East, Eban noted, “is a peril for the region and the world. The countries involved become easy prey for foreign powers.” For this reason the problem is the preoccupation of all the great powers, with the burden falling on the United States—“since the American people have emerged to the responsibilities of world leadership.”

Eban emphasized the aid and sympathy the US has giv^n Israel from its founding “in a wilderness of absolutism and despotism.” A partnership, stemming

$2.50, 2.00, 1.80 All Seats Reserved Tickets at Hillel 5715 Woodlawn PL 2-1127

[isn't this why more people want—and buy— Chevrolets than any other car?)

from striking similarities between the two countries, has made Israel turn to the US as a hinterland of sympathy. An Israeli - American problem arises only through “a triangular relationship with the Arab World.” It is this tug on American friendship which intensifies the problem. Eban declared.

Israel has small land area

Against this historical background Eban reviewed Israel’s security position today from its geographical and political aspects, and posed the question, “Is Arab hostility justified?”

Israel, in comparison to the Arab world, is but a small territory along the Eastern Mediterranean, with a desert strip between it and the Red Sea. It is only 8,000 square miles to the Arabs’ 2,600,000 square miles of sparsely populated and unutilized fertile lands.

Within the last 40 years no peoples, other than those of the Arab world, have attained their hopes as much as these “privileged children of historic fortune.” He declared emphatically, “We don’t envy the Arab people, but we don’t apologize for our 8,000 miles—history owes us at least that much.”

Antagonism hurts both countries

Eban explained that because there is no positive constructive relationship with the Arabs, the areas “material and spiritual achievement” is hindered. Because of the lack of mutual economic interchange, both countries, deprived of markets and sources of supply, are forced into wasteful commercial practices and dependence on external aid. Examples of this economic warfare are the defiance of international law expressed in the blockade of the Suez Canal and the frontier incidents with Jordan, Eban said.

He went on to remark that the wiping out of Israel would still leave the Arab world with its original problems of weak social and economic development. Eban stated that there is “not a single issue which could not be solved by good will on both sides.” Permanent peace needed

Eban stated that the tentative plan endorsed by Israel is “renewed negotiations with a permanent peace as the objective.” As long as a peace treaty is remote, however, the Armistice should be observed with full integrity by both sides. If this were done, such problems as the reset- offers courses

tlement of refugees, and the glaring violation of maritime law, and the custodianship of Jerusalem could be settled.

The refugee problem exists because of war, Eban declared, and not because of the establishment of the State of Israel. “It can be solved on a regional basis with the now withheld Arab co-operation,” he continued. “The Arabs possess the capacity of land and water, security, and social and linguistic aids. Rehabilitation is easier in the vast, rich Arab domain.” Israel would co-operate and pay compensation to speed the solution of the problem.

UN should rule Jerusalem

Eban of its should salem”

Eban

stated “The UN, because authority and dignity, be custodian of Jeruconcluded with a statement of his awareness "that an overnight solution is not possible, that “progress should be slow, careful, step by step. With a formula for modest diplomatic relationships, two kindred people, the Arabs and the Jews, can construct a new and prosperous domain in the Near East.”

Red Cross unit

in water safety

Swimming courses in senior lifesaving and water safety instruction will be offered during the Spring quarter by the Red Cross college unit.

Students may enroll by attending the first session at Ida Noyes on Tuesday, March 30, at 6:15 p.m.

Classes will meet in the Ida Noyes pool every Tuesday, beginning March 30, from 6:15 p.m. to 9:30 p.m. Both courses will run approximately six weeks.

The senior lifesaving course is open to any average swimmer who is over 16. Water safety instructor is open to all good swimmers over 18. Additional information may be had by contacting Bob Geidt at BU 8-9870.

WHERE THE U of C MEETS TO EAT

Gc Yckivd

W FINE FOOD 1321 East 57th Street

See how Chevrolet stays ahead of other low-priced cars in all the things that mean the most to you. See how much less Chevrolet costs you—it’s the lowest-priced line of them all. Come on in and let us show you how you can have the things you want and be a good many dollars ahead with a new Chevrolet.

That’s promising a lot, but we welcome the chance to prove it!

DIVIDED UNES

JOIN HERE

Jimmy’s

1172 E. 55

OUT AHEAD with that bigger, lower look. Only Chevrolet and leading higher-priced cars have Body by Fisher with that big, smooth, low-slung look.

OUT AHEAD with zippy, thrifty Powerglide. It’s the first and most advanced automatic transmission in the low-price field. Acceleration is instantly responsive and as smooth as silk. Optional on all models at extra cost.

OUT AHEAD with the highestcompression overhead valve engines. Chevrolet's great engines have the highest compression ratio of any leading low-priced car.

OUT AHEAD with bigger brakes. ^Chevrolet brakes are largest in the lowprice field for smoother, safer stops!

CHEVROLET

CHEVROLET

EMBLEM

SAVINGS 

OUT AHEAD with that smooth and solid big-car ride. Chevrolet's the only low-priced car with Unitized Knee-Action —one reason for its finer road-smoothing, road-hugging ride.

OUT AHEAD with automatic power controls. Chevrolet is the first low-priced car to bring you all the latest automatic power features and controls as extracost options.

SEE YOUR CHEVROLET DEALER FOR ALL YOUR AUTOMOTIVE NEEDS!

Conveniently lifted under "Automobiles” in your local classified telephone directory

r"'Disc

1367 E. 57th St.

•

THE RECORD .

OF THE WEEK

Mendelssohn

Octet, Opus 20 The Vienna Octet

LL 859 $5.95 Page 6

THE CHICAGO MAROON

March 12, 1954 CTA fares, communist minds

on collegiate press scene

"Students of eleven colleges in this area recently united in an effort to obtain reduced fares on the CTA for college students,” the Technology News, newspaper of Illinois Tech, recently informed its readers. It made the statement that Illinois Tech. Student Association would be asked to appropriate only twenty-five dollars of each student for this project. Any Casanovas available?

In a letter to the Maroon, and other colleges, Bob Hope recently announced a nation-wide

Highlight series on Jefferson, Ways of Mankind7 for WUCB

WUCB will start the spring quarter with several new programs designed to increase its service to the campus. Foremost among these is a program series entitled "The Jeffersonian Heritage,” which won the National Association of Broadcasters award in 1952. It deals with the writings of Thomas Jefferson in a historical framework.

0

contest for college students. "Through the columns of your valuable publication please ask the sororities to nominate their favorite Campus Casanova,” said Hope, “and send a picture with a 100 word explanation of his qualifications to Bob Hope, 'Casanovas Big Night,’ 5451 Marathon St., Hollywood 28, Calif.” Shall we fortify our entrenched reputation and refuse to participate? Or is there one among us?

College papers censored

Another bombshell has been felt on the campus press front. The complete Texas A & M Battalion staff recently resigned rather than submit to the “supervision” of a committee set up by the student government. The events precipitating the SG action were the Battalion’s articles on the ouster of a student last fall for challenging some Aggie tradition in a letter to the editor. More recently the Battalion published articles criticizing the school administration on the “too light” action taken against three freshman cadets who stole $2,500 worth of goods. The students in question were suspended by the Dean of Men with the implied stipulation that they might be reinstated at some future date.

The editors insisted the committee was created to censor their newspaper. Even the bowling news writer resigned claiming that eventually bowling scores might be censored, too.

The Red and Black, student paper of the University of Georgia, which incurred the wrath of a powerful university regent with an anti discriminatory editorial has gone through its second set of editors since censorship was

imposed. The Red and Black is express any screwy ideas. To be now run by a former assistant popular you have to conform." A sports editor and a faculty adviser Vassar girl put it this way: "We’re who reads all copy before it is a cautious generation. We aren’t

published.

The following item is reprinted complete from The Reporter, Feb. 2.

How to stay out of trouble: Appraised that the Massachusetts legislature might investigate communist activities at Westfield State Teachers College, its president, Edward J. Scanion, was quoted by the Holyoke Daily Transcript as stating in part:

"I know of no Reds or communist-minded persons either among the faculty or the students here The type of students who go here are not of the highly intellectual type among which such tendencies exist ...”

buying any ideas we’re not sure of.”

Although many students drink, Newsweek said, they do not drink heavily. The President of Princeton University estimates that for every beer sold at local restaurants students drink three to four gallons of milk. A Princeton student said, “You can’t drink and keep up your studies.”

As for world problems, “collegians gave little thought to politics or international troubles.”

A large number “accepted Mc Carthyism, although a goodly number in all institutions questioned its methods.” Students “were wary of anything with a Red tinge.”

"Ways of Mankind" dramatized

This series, produced by the National Association of Educational Broadcasters (NAEB), will be, co-starred with a second NAEB series, “The Ways of Mankind,” a dramatized anthropological study. This series deals with a number of cultures, including several studied in Social Sciences 2.

In the planning stage are a dramatic program which will feature recorded classics of the theatre alternated with productions by a local drama group, and a panel discussion program on comparative religion.

Range to be extended

All the above programs, and the programs now schedulea, are broadcast at 640 KC by WUCB’s high-fidelity transmitters in BJ and the C-Group. Plans are now being made for an extension of WUCB’s range into the dormitory groups not now covered by it, and the continuing increase in personnel will facilitate this increase in campus service.

Station Manager John Lyon announced Wednesday in an open meeting, “Technically, WUCB is in excellent condition. Programming quality and quantity are both better than last year, despite the inevitable end-of-quarter lag.

Staffers trained

"Workshops in enginering and announcing are helping new staff members to learn, and a number of inexperienced persons are taking advantage of this service. However, the station is certainly not perfect, and we are hoping for a continuing improvement: Campus suggestions designed to help this improvement will be appreciated.”

For those who are obliged to spend the Spring Interim in the dormitory system, WUCB will broadcast WEFM.

Navy frowns on beards

The Air Force and the Army ROTC have given their approval to a beard growing contest at the University of Texas, although the Navy didn’t. Applicants will be excused from shaving for drill periods. The five divisions in the contest are: best all-around beard, bushiest, sexiest, most unique, and the best peach fuzz. Perhaps the most interesting fact here is that Texans will admit to growing peach fuzz.

Newsweek Magazine decided recently in a study of seven universities across the country that college students seem dull in comparison with their predecessors of less-troubled eras. They found that students seem to be afraid to be different and have wild hair cuts, swallow gold fish, and carry on other “infantile practices.” A Northwestern co-ed said, echoing prevalent opinion, “You want to be popular, so naturally you don’t

High fidelity grips the campus

is intellectual’s answer to opium

Like most fads rampant among the intelligentsia, the high fidelity craze has taken UC by storm.

To some of its followers, "Hi-Fi” is a hobby; to others, it is a science; to most, it is a habit, not unlike addicition to some insidious derivative of the opium poppy. For, once introduced to the "new world of sound,” the initiate must graduate to higher and higher (and more expensive) kicks, until he is reduced to a formless blob condemned to pass through life with a pair of well-trained ears

that can hear a cockroach crawling across a bear rug at 20-20,000 cps, plus or minus 0.1 db. In railroad stations he writhes inwardly when the voice of the conductor comes over the extremely low-fi speaker, and he looks forward to a telephone call with dread.

Folklore Society draws crowd

by Bob March

One evening early this quarter, a group of about 15 UC folk musicians walked into the Ida Noyes dance room for the founding meeting of a new student organization, the Folklore Society. To their amazement, they were awaited by a crowd of 100 and a tape recorder.

Now, several weeks, three parties, and 110 members later, the Society has become one of UC’s largest student organizations. Chairman Moe Hirsch, a student in the Math department, says "We originally started the club as a clearing house for folk musicians we expected 20 or 30 members .

I guess people on

Seeger concert in Mandel Hall, its scope by starting classes in

this campus just like our

music.”

Hirsch cut his musical eye-teeth in New York’s folk music crowd, where a premium is placed on instrumental skill, and is one of the top guitarists in the country.

Unembellished voices welcome

But membership is not confined to the purveyors of the flashy instrumental — the bulk of the membership consists of people who come to the Society’s gettogethers unencumbered with instrument case, and only "bring their voice.” Young instrumentalists are given hints and encouragement by the older members, and encouraged to "try it out before an audience.’

The Society’s first two gettogethers were "Wing-Dings,” informal early evening get-togethers in Ida Noyes. About 25 members performed at each one. Music ranged from the usual come-allye’s, ballads, and hoedowns to Afro-Cuban chants and bagpipe solos by guests in the regalia of the Stockyards Kilty Band. The Society also ran a party, square dance and folk festival in the basement of the Phi Psi house.

Parties and wing-dings planned

Plans for next quarter call for one party and one Wing-Ding each month.

The Folklore Society Quartet, a combination square dance band and vocal quartet, will participate, along with Afro-Cuban singer Ella Jenkins, in the forthcoming Pete

April 3.

folk and square dancing and com The Society hopes to broaden piling an archive of folk music.

Musicians flag-pole sitters?

And never again can he enjoy a symphony concert, for what live symphony orchestra ever sounds like a faithful reproduction of a symphony orchestra? No, a high fidelity LP of an orchestra sounds exactly like a concert performed in a vast exponential cavern, with the musicians clinging to a flagpole rising up in the middle.

Addiction begins when an old hi-fi addict informs the initiate that his battered changer is chewing up his priceless LP’s like a turret lathe, and that foi a mere cash outlay of $795 this atrocious situation may be corrected. By the time the new addict has obtained his 50-pound British output transformer, he has been thrown out of his apartment for non-payment of rent and is blissfully living sideby-side with a 21 inch speaker in a folded horn cabinet, oblivious to

everything but the beauty of his linear all-triode amplifier.

Work to support gluttonous hi-fi

Then, if he gets smart, he becomes a "pusher,” taking out a dealership and peddling custom equipment to his fellow students. You can tell the pushers from the addicts—they eat. They can afford to support the electronic monster at the end of their living room, winking with its glowing filaments and blowing fuses with its home-soldered connections.

Hi-fi highbrow TV

In the final stage of addiction, the Audiophile starts designing amplifiers and speaker cabinets that nobody can afford to build except somebody who has enough money to know better. In this stage, the addict hocks his speaker to buy postage stamps to send letters to audio magazines and takes to watching string quartets on his oscillograph.

“What do you read, my lord?” “Words, words, words.”

THE CONFIDENTIAL CLERK by T. S. Eliot.$3.00 Eliot's latest play. Now on Broadway.

A WRITER'S DIARY by Virginia Woolf A revealing record of fhe mind of a fine writer.

$5.00

HORSEMAN ON THE ROOF by Jean Giono $4.00

A novel of high romance and adventure in the plaguestricken France of 1838.

THE WHITE CITADEL by Charles Neider A story laid in Bessarabia, of the bottle of the sexes.

$3.50

CARNIVAL BY THE SEA by Sigrid de Lima.$3.50 A haunting novel by a talented young writer.

THE HEART OF A PEACOCK by Emily 

A collection of short pieces by the outhor of "The Book of Small."

• UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO

BOOKSTORE

5802 Ellis Avenue

NO 7-9071 HYDE PARK THEATRE J^/**11 NOW PLAYING

Stanley Holloway in "THE TITFIELD THUNDERBOLT" and x>.

Alfred Hitchcock's "39 STEPS"'

Coming Friday, March 19

Wok Disney's 'THE LIVING DESERT" and

John Barrymore in Elmer Rice's "COUNSELOR-AT-LAW"

Coming Friday, March 26

Academy Award Candidate

William Wyler's "FROM HERE TO ETERNITY"

Student Rate SOc All Performances If You Present Your ID Card at the Boxoffice

PETE .SEEGER RETURNS

Saturday, April 3

Mandel Hall - 8:00 P.M.

Reserved Seats...$1.50

General Admission ....$1.00

Tickets available at Student Government Ticket Booth — Reynolds Club Sponxered by UC World University Service

 March 12, 1954

THE CHICAGO MAROON

Page 7

US press distorts USSR

claim Soviet journalists

Our last few days in the Soviet Union were spent in Moscow. After almost three weeks in the country, I was beginning to be able to read store signs and even understand the sense of the conversations around me. I had brought a Russian grammar along and received some lessons from my interpreter. The feeling of strangeness, that probably any foreigner feels in another country — where the language barrier is very ^reat — had worn off; the last three days in Moscow became very meaningful.

It was during this period that we visited the building of Pravda. Pravda, meaning • truth,” is published by the central committee of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union. It is one of the two major all-union i for the entire Soviet Union) daily newspapers. Isvestla, the other, is published by the highest body of Soviet trade unions.

Pravda mentioned visit

Actually, all Soviet newspapers appear six days a week. In addition to all-union papers there are local city papers. There is a special Moscow edition of Pravda, and in Leningrad I bought a newspaper called The Evening Leningrad. Our group was mentioned in the latter paper on January 4, the day after we arrived in Leningrad. Pravda also carried a short item the day after we arrived in the Soviet Union. Both the articles contained only our names, schools, student newspapers, and the general plans for the trip.

There is another type of periodical that is common in USSR; this is the Youth newspaper which is published for age groups of 14 to 25. In the cities we visited, we frequently were interviewed by the editors of the different youth newspapers.

This photograph taken from our moving car show an outlying area of Leningrad. The clothing is typical for a ten-below xero day. The store on the left side is an "apteka" or drugstore. Only drugs and medicines are sold in such stores.

Met editors

In Moscow we had an informal meeting with part of the editorial board of Komsomolsky* Pravda. The offices of this publication, an all-union daily, were in the Pravda building.

We met in a large paneled conference room and were served fresh fruit and tea during the discussion. The paper, the editors explained, was published by the central committee of the Komsomol. This did not mean the paper was primarily political. The paper had twelve departments including cultural activities, Kom somol affairs, student affairs, and activities of young workers.

Each department was presided over by an editor; these persons formed the editorial board which determined the policy of the paper. Komsolmolskaya Pravda had a circulation of about 1,600,000 with no advertising. The editors said the subscriptions and newsstand sales paid the cost of the paper. The [hice was 20 kopeks (or 5 cents).

Talked about peace

We had a long discussion with the editors about journalism, American - Soviet relations, and the prospects for peace.

Concerning journalism, we

Conclude USSR report

This is the final report by Richard E. Ward, MAROON managing editor, on his recent trip to the Soviet Union. He spent three weeks in the USSR with six other American college editors.

The adjacent account gives some of Ward's views on the trip.

learned that some universities have journalism schools; Moscow University for example, but most soviet journalists did not study journalism. Soviet newspapers do not print stories of so-called petty crimes, such as robberies, assaults, or even murders. They were familiar with such accounts in American newspapers and felt that such stories incited further crimes.

The editorial board was convinced that reports of the Soviet Union were always distorted in the American Press. We admitted that we had to agree with them to an extent on this point.

Actually, we often found that our experiences differed from accounts of life in the-USSR in the American Press.

Interviewed by Americans

We had met two of the American correspondents in Moscow shortly after our arrival. These two men, representing the AP and UP wire services, and Harrison Salisbury of the New York Times, are presently the only American newsmen in the Soviet Union.

We told the Komsomolskaya Pravda editors we believed that these men sent out accurate accounts. It was interpretive accounts presented in the form ef news that we felt created false impressions of the general Soviet scene.

Talked of peace

Our interview was concluded when we discussed the prospects of peace. The Soviet editors had a good knowledge of world events. Our talk took place shortly before the Berlin Conference, and they pointed to that as the beginning of more peaceful relations between our two countries.

We had a lull schedule during the last two days in Moscow—our last trip to the ballet and a visit to the tomb of Lenin and Stalin. The latter is situated adjacent to the Kremlin and is a striking red marble construction. Soviet citizens wait many hours in long lines to visit the mausoleum, but we were given places near the

front of the line.

Moscow has a museum similar to the Museum of Science and Industry in Chicago, even to the extent that the mechanical exhibits sometimes worked only part of the time. Museums are abundant throughout the Soviet Union. Many are of a type familiar to us, such as the art museums. There are numerous historical museums, also, which illustrate the history of a particular town, republics, or noted personages.

Auto production increasing

Testimony to the Soviet Union’s expanding heavy industry was the traffic in Moscow. Trucks appeared to outnumber cars in other cities, but the number of passenger cars have increased rapidly in the past few years. We could get no figures on the total number of cars, certainly not more than a fifth the number that would be in a similarly sized American city. However, there were almost no pre war models in sight. There were very few cars at that time.

The cost of the cheapest automobile was 8000 rubles, or $2,000. This is still beyond the reach of the average worker.

Describe deportment stores

Moscow has two large department stores. These were wellfilled with ordinary commodities and also luxury items such as stylish clothing and console radios.

GUM (abbreviation for “government universal store”) the newest of the two, was opened last December and was jammed. We had to make our purchases in Mortag, located near the Bolshoi theatre, because GUM was too crowded.

Radios scarce, inexpensive

Prices on radio equipment was inexpensive and comparable to American prices. However, such items are not always in sufficient stock. Television is new to the Soviet Union. We received a demonstration at the Polytechnic Museum of three sets presently in production. The industry began two years ago, and the average set has a 10-inch screen. A larger number of scanning lines are used than on American sets.

Most prices in the department stores appeared expensive. Because there is no free trade between the U. S. and the Soviet Union, the ruble has been arbitrarily placed at 25 cents. This puts the American at a considerable disadvantage in the exchange. It is, therefore, difficult to estimate the actual costs of items in terms for Soviet citizens, without knowing their precise incomes.

We left Moscow on the morning of January 19. Two of our interpreters accompanied us to the airport. They sipped tea with us as the plane was to be delayed an hour. We didn’t talk much.

Editors were insistent

I had the feeling they would puzzle over us for a long time. We had been very insistent in our demand throughout the trip and undoubtedly we received many privileges such as meeting Shostakovich and going back-stage at the Bolshoi, which were not part of the regular tourist privileges. The interpreters were the only Soviet citizens we were with long enough to really become acquainted with.

There was a minimum of redtape at ihe airport. There1 was no customs inspection; we only had to show our passports and plane tickets. The plane was uneventful. That afternoon we arrived in East Berlin,,two days later we were in New York City.

These three girls ore students in secondary school number 19 in Tblisi, Georgia, USSR. The girls of the school were anxious to show their knowledge of English, and gave us simple and genuine expressions of their friendship in the form of New Year's cards and peace pins.

Ward: travel helps

allay mutual distrust

In my preceding articles I have tried to give an accurate impression of some phases of Soviet life. Although our visit was for only three weeks, it would be impossible to completely describe my experiences in anything short of a book.

In these three weeks I believe our group learned a great deal about the Soviet people, their economic life, their cultural life, and even their thoughts on different political questions.

We had been in the Soviet Union only a few days when we realized how incomplete our knowledge was of Soviet life, and that much which is considered common knowledge in the United States is erroneous.

. USSR falsely pictured

Often, we are given accounts telling of extreme poverty among Soviet citizens. This we found completely untrue. It would seem well to realize that there is no large nation in the world that has as high an average standard of living in the US. There was a great amount of destruction of the western portions of the USSR during the last war. Much of the Soviet resources went into repairing this damage. Probably the standing of living in the Soviet Union is now comparable to Europe as a whole.

On our return to America we found intense interest in our trip to the USSR. We encountered a similar interest on the part of Soviet citizens concerning life in the US.

It would be foolish to consider that the people of the Soviet Union are expressing disfavor for their system of government because of their interest in the US. Rather, it would seem to be a genuine interest in peace. I would likewise interpret the many questions about the USSR by Americans.

Talked of peace

When the Soviet students said they were in favor of peace, we could answer that we knew the vast majority of American were certainly in favor of peace. The Soviet students believed this.

We could have stopped our discussion at this point and considered all disagreements solved. However, we were all extremely aware of the precarious relationship between the US and the Soviet Union.

We found a further point of agreement. There is a mutual fear between our respective countries. The Soviet people consider themselves surrounded by American air bases. At the same time we realized that the Soviet Union has a large army. Young men in the Soviet Union are drafted at twenty for a two year term of military training. Only students are completely exempt from such training.

I do not really know of the difficulties encountered by a foreigner who previously wanted to travel in the Soviet Union. I had heard of some denied visas. At the same time all Soviet citizens were being barred from, the US by the Mc Carran Act unless given permission from the Justice Department.

Our group, and the preceeding group of American editors encountered no difficulty in receiveing Soviet visas.

Many of the Soviet students with whom we talked expressed their desire to travel in the United States. At the same time they reminded us of the Mc Carran Act, and said that under these circumstances they did not feel free to attempt a trip to the United States.

It would seem logical that since two American groups have recently visited the Soviet Union, that the door be opened for Soviet students.

I am not proposing that such an exchange of students will solve any major world problems. But when such international travel exists it can be a step in alleviating any mutual distrust.

I have just received a letter from one of the other editors from our group. He states that he had written to one of our interpreters in Moscow and had received a reply. He described the letter as “short and somewhat formal —but it was a reply.”

Richard Ward

A group of apartment units in Minsk. Most of the city looks like tha above scene. Ninety-five per cent of the city was destroyed during the war. It has been almost completely rebuilt. A small number of the residents remain in makeshift dwellings left from the war. The diesel bus is similar to the type used in Chicago. Page 8

THE CHICAGO MAROON

March 12, 1954

Pete Seeger, who presented his folksinging to an overflow audience at Mandel Hall last January, will appear there again Saturday, April 3. On the same program are the Folklore Society Hoe - Down quartet, and Ella Jenkins, who plays a primitive Congo drum and

chants Afro-Cuban songs.

The UC chapter versify Service is

and Carribean

of World Unisponsoring the

concert and will turn over all the proceeds to Kenwood-Ellis Nursery School.

Negro rights play in preparation; cast presently open to try-outs

Tryouts are now in process for Trial by Fire, a play adapted by Father Dunn from actual court records of a race riot killing, now being prepared for production by the Student Representative Party community relations committee. The production will be directed by Patrick A. Devlin, who has directed companies throughout England and Scotland and was a director for the Work Projects Administration Theater.

The play is based on the

story of a Negro family who J

bought a home in an all white

part of a small town. The hottse I" 1

was burned down and the family I 3 .

killed. In the action of the piny I the coroner addresses the audi- 

enc js though it were the coron- 1 .

ei> buy. Throughout the ptoaudience ,I'M' '" ,('<tify and their usunum bo< oir.es the medium tor f l.i-bh c k- mto the live-, ot the vu-rm- pt"', idimr insights mu. the dynamics of racial prejudice. MHH^||||||^F^^|

Persons interested in the tryouts should contact Kay Schwartz in Kelly Hall.

'Rome 11 O'clock' Zavattini's best

During the past few months Italian film makers have been engaged in a review of the structure and purposes of the Italian cinema. The earlier post-war films, those even that have become veritable classics, have been subjected to scrutiny and analysis in order to determine whether the Italian cinema has indeed deserved its epitaph, "neo-realism." In the course of this review films such as Bicycle Thief with its gripping

portrayal of the dilemma of its protagonist, have been examined to see if they actually give a true picture of present day Italy, or if they show rather only incidents of an accidental nature that, detached from immediate urgency, are, to quote the critic Pio Baldelli, “like scattered, partly withered leaves.”

Most of the film makers have been in agreement on one conclusion—that the bulk of films thus far have only touched the surface of reality and that for subsequent films to be successful they must show that there is more to Italy “than meets the eye.”

Yet, within this conclusion there has been difference. The critic

Father Dunn

Armando Borrelli demands that “realism reveal the movement of reality,” that “it make use of the facts only as a springboard from which to plunge even deeper into reality so as to grasp the origins of those facts” while the more conservative film writer, Cesare Zavattini, has seldom departed from his position that the naked facts and details of poverty are the strongest substance of reality.

Nevertheless, in his most recent film, “Rome, Eleven O’clock,” (now playing at the World Playhouse and soon to be at the Hyde Park), made with the director, Guiseppe De Santis (Biter Rice, etc.), Zavattini has begun to venture behind the facts. Certainly his venture has come of necessity. Since “Bicycle Thief,” the major Italian films have based themselves upon Italy’s acute unemployment situation. Though Zavattini has been able, in such films as “Miracle in Milan,” to avoid direct contact with this issue, the poignancy of “Two Cents Worth of Hope,” among others, has made it impossible for him to further ignore it.

Rome, Eleven O’clock goes beyond the mere fact of unemployment to suggest its causes. It tells the story of some 300 girls who crowd onto a four-story staircase in response to an advertisement for one office secretary. When one girls rushes up the stairs out of turn a fight begins, the stairway collapses, one girl is killed and numerous are injured with varying severity.

An investigation of the cause of the collapse is begun in which the suspects include the impatient girl, whose impatience came of the long term unemployment of herself and her husband (it was indicated that most of the girls faced similar situations), the owner and the architect of the building, and the prospective employer. During

the proceedings the narrative continually asks the question, “Who is to blame?” By means of a well executed montage we get glimpses into the histories of the suspects and of the other young women on the stairway, including a streetwalker who attempts to forsake an affair with a prosperous businessman in favor of a decent job and a girl from a wealthy home who has married a poor artist. We see (though insufficiently, because of the choice and type of characterizations), the influences of these people on one another. When the film ends all suspects are released and we are returned to the outside of the building where we see one girl back waiting for the one job.

Aside from the typical De Santis tendency to put an unjustified pulchritude parley into the film, Rome, Eleven O’clock has some of the faults of Zavattini’s previous scripts. Too often convenient coincidences and heavy irony — for instance, while waiting on the stairs the young woman who steps out of turn becomes most friendly with the girl who dies—are used for dramatic intensity, whereas the drama should more realistically have been heightened by presenting the major protagonists in clearer-cut characterizations. As it is now, the irohy imposes an aura of mechanical predestiny over the film.

On the whole—despite the aforementioned idiosyncrasy — De Santis has accomplished his most successful direction in this film. In addition to excellent handling of personnel, his photography and editing carry the viewer through every scene without distraction. In the stairway collapse scene, we are aware of every fall, we know how each young woman clings for her life, yet we sense a wrong, we anticipate the question that is to come.

Yet—and herein is the major

failing of the film—that question, “Who is to blame?'1 is never answered. The responsibility for this failure lies not least with the narrative structure of the film and partly with Zavattini’s refusal to venture too far from the “naked facts.” Any one of the the alternatives — poor building construction, poor maintenance, the rush started by the impatient young woman, the employer’s interviewing procedure, or the unemployment itself and the factors contributing to it—had it been presented as the answer would

See "Rome, 11 o'clock," page 9

Examples of wrong (above) and right (below) frames, typical of those currently on exhibition, “Framing, right and wrong," in tho Goodspeed Hall galleries of the Rennaisonce Society. The exhibition, prepared by The House of H. Heydenryk, Jr., will be open until March 24.

RISE STEVENS says: “Not ’til high school was my voice ‘discovered’. (I unwittingly sang an octave low in class.) From that day, singing was my love — at weddings, parties, on the radio. I studied all over Europe before the Met and the movies accepted me.”

/< WHEN I STARTED \ SMOKING CAMELS, I KNEW THIS WAS THE CIGARETTE FOR ME! CAMELS ARE ALWAYS WONDERFULLY MILD, AND I LOVE THEIR GOOD, RICH FLAVOR! YOU'LL

X LIKE THEM, TOO! 7

R. J. Reynold! Tobacco C* Winston-Salem. N. C.

Start smoking Camels

Brilliant star of the Metropolitan Opera

Smoke only Camels for 30 days — see for yourself why Camels’ cool, genuine mildness and rich, friendly flavor k give more people more * pure pleasure than any other cigarette!

^'S CAMELS agree with more people

THAN ANY OTHER. CIGARETTE J 12, 1954

THE CHICAGO MAROON

Page 9

Collegium to present second program;

features works by Telemann, Bach

Richard E. Vikstrom

This Sunday, the Collegium Musicum, a chamber orchestra composed of students, faculty i^pbers of ^e University community, will present its second program of the year in Mandel Hall. Conducted by Richard Vikstrom, the program will feature works by Sammartmi, Telemann, Bach, Beethoven and Haydn.

The first work, the Concerto Grosso for String Orchestra, Op. 11, No. 4, is by Giuseppe Sammartini, the brother of the better known Giovanni Battista. Giuseppe was an oboe virtuoso of the first half of the 

eighteenth century, and was first oboist at the Italian Opera in London and later chamber musician to the Prince of Wales. At his death in 1740 he left some 38 compositions, including six concerti grossi. The soloists will include George Kulles and Paul Revitt, violins, Julius Klein, ’cello and Wilfred Weeks, bass.

Georg Philipp Telemann (1681-1767) was a contemporary of Bach, and the most celebrated

composer numerous

of his time. He held important positions.

and declined an offer of the post of cantor at the Thoniasschule, which Bach later accepted. An amazingly prolific composer, he left approximately 4,(MM) works for all sorts of combinations. The Collegium will perform his Concerto for Flute and Orchestra, with James Mack as soloist.

Next on the program is Bach’s Sonata No. 1 for Viola da Gamba and Cembalo, with Julius Klein, gamba and Gerald Phillips, cembalo. The viola da gamba was a five or more stringed instrument tuned in fourths and thirds, and

played like a 'cello, with a but expressive tone.

The concert closes with thoven’s Trio, Op. 87 for Oboes and English Horn,

small

Bee Two with

Robert Goldstein and Howard Friden, oboes, and Leland Smith, English horn, and Haydn’s Symphony in C Minor, called No. 78 by one of the many systems of numbering, presumably from his fruitful but lesser known middle period.

The concert begins at 8:30 p.m.,

Joyce Hiller os Leah in the production of THE DYBBUK, the wellknown play by S.^Ansky depicting Chossidic life among the Jewry of Eastern Europe, to be presented by the B'nai B'rith Hillel foundation at the University of Chicago on Sunday, April 4, in Mandel Hall at 8:30 p.m.

and is open to the public charge.

without

'God in You' personal interpretation of religious life; Eby not convincing in projecting values into society

"The God in You," by Kermit Eby. UC Press. 1954. 162 pp. $2.50.

After reading Prof. Eby’s book one is painfully reminded of the realism issuing from Nietzsche’s assertion that there was only one Christ and He died at the cross. For, irrespective of, or perhaps in spite ol, the title of the book, the central theme of it is a conjuration of “Brethren value” and “Brethren image of, the good man.”

It is equally painful to resist the pious incantations, which seem to decorate the vividly noble spirit of the author. Certainly, the plausibility of this resistance is not ignored by the author, who qualifies some of his descriptions and pleas, by a diplay of incidental doubts about their real merits. Thus, by making the statement: “Attitudes aie caught, not taught” as the title of his C hapter VII, he clearly acknowledges the impact of life experiences upon individual attitudes. Yet, in line with his main moralistic orientation, he opens this same chapter with the nebulous definition that “Attitudes are what we are at heart” (p. 87).

One is inclined to believe that one reason for this common ambivalence is Professor Eby’s force Oooops Due to a printer's error, the signatura on the review two weeks ago of University Theatre's PLAYBOY OF THE WESTERN WORLD was omitted. The review should have been signed by Arlene Kramer.

PLAYWRIGHTS theatre club

presents

"TTlu’tdel

tn the (^athe^Hal

an Eliot satire — revitalising the story of 12th century saints and sinners for the being of today.

Membership available at the boxoffice

PLAYWRIGHTS theatre club

1560 N. La Salle

WH 3-2272

ful yet objectively untenable projection of his values and wishes into the web of social realities. Indeed, the book is predicated upon and revolves around, an intense self • consciousness closely allied with a form of autobiography. The author has the inveterate urge to make his life experiences edifying universally. The insistence that it is not difficult to practice “an example of fellowship’’ and “the formula of service” • 96), illustrates the unfortunate sway of this attitude in his thinking—or at least in his arguments.

The designation, “Truth has a Double Face,” of Chapter 10, aroused considerable interest in this reviewer, in terms of its appearance of defying simplemindedness. The expectations arising from this interest were as unjustified as the subsequent realization that one shouldn’t take titles too seriously.

As usual, the entire discussion is punctuated by illustrations and recounts of personal experiences. But ultimately they prove to be an implied dichotomy of the truth of the self “against the one true Way” (132).

Nor can one dismiss this dichotomy by the author's indulgence in a concluding platitude, which broadcasts the idea that “truth is ... that by which they live and on which they act.” In the estimation of this reviewer, the most tangible contribution Professor Eby offers in his book is the discussion on “the hero as a man.” Here is ample confirmation of the Spenglerian verdict which ascribes a Faustian spirit to contemporary civilization,

where seif • assertiveness and ultimate heroism are dominant principles. Here is evidence of an unmistakable realization, attesting to the universal sway of “the terrifying will to destructiveness.”

The author bitterly assails the fact that “We brethren claim to be a pacifist church. Yet fewer than 10 per cent of our boys maintained that pacifist position in the last war” (167). But, is complaining identical with, or is it conducive to, an understanding of the underlying factors of this phenomenon? To a Harvard anthropologist, man is still a predatory ape, acquisitive, savage, and inexorably selfish when confronted with crucial as well as critical alternatives. To Professor Eby, on the other hand, and to Niebuhr, who wrote the Foreward, religious life, or dedication to religious principle and God, may provide an answer to the perplexing and harsh realities of civilized life. Goethe, who dramatized the idea of the Faustian culture, with his monumental work bearing the same name, had an answer to the question as to how indispensable religion is. His answer is poeticized as follows:

Wer wissenschaft und Kunst besitzt

Er hat Religion

Wer sie nicht besitzt

Er habe Religion

• He who has arts and sciences Has also religion; He who doesn’t have them He should have religion.)

May we never forget that most religions, Christianity included, arose out of efforts to

ELIOT ELIOT ELIOT ELIOT ELIOT ELIOT

solve existing social problems. Yet, did they prove helpful? Mannheim’s definition of history as “the matrix of human nature” is quite succinct in intimating man's basic ineptness to embrace religion consequentially. This ineptness is not only historically valid, but, because of that, indicative of the sway of forces, w h i c h Mefy religious fervor, for that matter, even the ideal of celestial happiness.

Prof. Eby’s references to Koestler (“men cannot be treated as units”) p. 163; to Dostoevski’s authoritarian Inquisitor, p. 150; and, through a moving recount involving his daughter’s essay, (where she bravely emulates her father’s ethic as a high school student) to Machiavelli, are interesting but do net exhaust the implications of the problems they refer to. Their pathological dimensions are, for example, either ignored or relegated to the factors of unethical and irreligious attitudes.

The author's account of “students of mine” who, animated by higher ideals of service to the “Worker,” proceeded to serve, but, confronting the worker “with the small ‘w,’ ” experienced shock and dismay, and his evaluations symbolize this inadequacy. Prof. - Eby, with his acumen and thoughtfulness, could have more out of these facts than plead: “Forgive us our temptations.”

Until exponents of religion provide more convincing Evidence about their claims imputing problem solving qualities to religion, the merits of their arguments will not transcend the virtue of piousness and possibly of eloquence.

Compared to Buckley’s depressing naivete in God and Man at Yale, Professor Eby’s treatment of the problem is a jewel of soundness and maturity. Yet considering the ultimate merits of his treatment, the temptation to see a basic congeniality of judgment between the two is strong.

Dovid Prince

International House Movie Program

East Lounge, Monday and Thursday Evenings at 7:00 P.M. and 9:00 P.M.

Admission 35c

Monday, March 15 — THE BANK DICK <American)

Thursday, March 18 — IT HAPPENED ONE NIGHT (American) Monday, March 22 — MY DARLING CLEMENTINE (American) Thursday, March 25 — SPECTER OF THE ROSE (American) ALEXANDER'S THE GREAT

PLACE TO EAT OFF CAMPUS OPEN DAY AND NIGHT

YOUR HOSTS WILL BE

GEORGE KYROS

PETE HRISTAKOS

1137 - 39 East 63rd Street

Kermit Eby

Rome, 11 o'clock...

• from page 8) have produced a dramatically flat ending. And certainly Zavattini could not fall back upon a deliberately absurd ending as in “Miracle in Milan.” Only by presenting the naked facts, albeit this time with some large scratches beneath the surface, could this narrative structure be effective.

Zavattini had a choice. He could have stuck to the naked facts as he did with Bicycle Thief and produced an irresolute story, thereby rejecting the developments in the realistic approach since Bicycle Thief, or he could have presented the facts with some background. In choosing the later he has written one of the most realistic and human Italian films to appear in this city. Had he taken a third choice—to place the question implicitly in drama of the story and to answer it implicitly, Rome, Eleven ©’Clock would be a dynamic picture of Italian life.

Daniel Queen March 12, 1954

THE CHICAGO MAROON

Page 11

Women's athletic group to celebrate anniversary

by Spike Pinney

Uncheered, unsubsidized, and relatively unknown, the Woman’s Athletic Association (WAA) will complete fifty years of activity this spring at its annual awards banquet. It is time for some recognition, and perhaps some cheers, for any such association that has survived that long in an environment hostile to feminine activity more strenuous than - for instance—bridge.

WAA and women’s athletics in general have followed a course closely parallel to men’s athletics. Very popular and well supported from the time Ida Noyes Hall was built in 1916 on through the twenties, WAA did not start de Spring-UC nine starts practicing

With the opening day doubleheader on April 3 less than a month away, varsity Baseball coach, Kyle Anderson, has begun heavy drills on the North Field for his present 27 man squad. Anderson, noting the return of a large number of experienced lettermen and players from the 1953 squad, envisions a successful season for the Maroons.

The corps of lettermen include infielders Wendell Marumoto, Dave Utley and Bruce Colby, and outfielders George Grey and Bob Mann. Strengthening the infield from last year’s varsity and JV squad are Mario Baur, Jeff Marks and Don Mazukell.

Broyles main pitcher

The pitching staff looks strong and ambitious, according to Anderson. Veteran chucker John Broyles is bolstered by rookies Paul Hershall, Charles Youngquist and Jerry Lux—all with experience on high school teams. First string catcher appears to be rookie Walt Walker.

Anderson still looks forward to spirited competition for his nine, and with the short time until opening day hopes that more boys who hope for action on this year’s squad will take advantage of the two daily practice sessions at 12:30 and 3:30, and of the vacation practice.

dining until Hutchins, in 1932, put physical education on a purely optional basis as part of his new plan of education; it would have seemed peculiar to have gym the onl^ class with required attendance. Before 1932, WAA had played a large role in campus social life, sponsoring parties and dances. Afterwards Student Union began to take over more of these functions.

Because of the optional attend Skown above are three girls participating in three of the sports offered by the Women's Athletic Association — bowling, basketball and volleyball.

Fencers to face college champs in NCAA meet

Some of the nation’s best collegiate fencers will compete in the National Collegiate Athletic Association championships which will be held in Bartlett Gym, Friday and Saturday, April 23 and 24. Over’ forty schools will enter three-man teams, each school having one competitor in each weapon.

Chicago will be represented by Ernie Dunston, major letter winner, in foil; Alex Shane, another third-year fencer, in epee; and Davis Bobrow, a first-year fencer, on sabre.

The Maroons close their season in a home meet tomorrow against Notre Dame and Lawrence Tech.

WHY INCH THROUGH HIGHWAY TRAFFIC or wait until skyway weather clears? Take a train home and keep that very first date for sure! IT’S MORE FUN GOING with the crowd all together on the train. There’s room for bridge or bull session. And, in the dining car, you can enjoy the next best to home cooking. ,

GO FOR 25% LESS than the regular coach fare by traveling home and back with two or more friends on Group Economy Plan Tickets. They’re good on trips of 100 miles or more. Gather a group of 25 or more and you each save 28% riding long-distance on the same train, then returning as a group or individually.

Consult Your Local Railroad Ticket Agent Weil in Advance of Departure Date for Detailed Information

EASTERN RAILROADS

ance plan, which was to run for a ten year trial period, the athletic role of WAA also began to dwindle. In 1942, at the end of the trial period, a faculty meeting approved required physical education, presumably because of war time pressure for better conditioning of potential draftees. However the war has been over for nearly nine years, and the new program has not yet been inaugurated.

WAA resembles male athletics

This leaves WAA in a position like that of men’s athletics. But without any pep club to cheer, or any female Joe Howards or Ken Stapleys to win newspaper space,

the Association stresses participapation even more. There are three levels to this participation. The first is intercollegiate and intramural, and operates through WAA itself. The second is part of the general women’s physical education program, and is called instructional. This is open to students, employees, and the faculty of the University, and is required only for pre-high school graduates. The third, also a part of the general program, is scheduled recreation under the supervision of staff members.

Heading the whole 'women’s physical education staff is Miss Edith Ballwebber. Staff members

under her each specialize in two or three sports or activities. Miss Katherine Manning, a former member of the Humphrey Weidman concert group, teaches modern and social dancing. Miss Nell Eastburn instructs golf, bowling and social dancing. Miss Martha Kloo and Miss Shirley Thineman also work with WAA. Hockey, volleyball, swimming, badminton, bowling, softball and tennis are the sports the Association plays. Besides the facilities in Ida Noyes, women’s athletics uses the Midway during the autumn, five tennis courts on 60th St., a hockey field and a golf green and approach.

Maroon track team wins

Midwest Invitational Meet

by Justin Johnson

The varsity track team ended a two-year reign of Wheaton College in the 15th Midwest Invitational Track Meet, by winning at Naperville, Illinois, last Saturday in a heated contest which was not decided until the final relay. Final score was Chicago 55^, Wheaton 54^, Mankato 29, Loyola 28^, Ball State 201/>, Milwaukee 16Vis De Pauw 101/,, and De Kalb 7. “

Chicago took only two firsts, but scored in all but one of the 12 events. Frank Loomos

continued his supremacy in the low hurdles, winning his specialty in :07.0, and Roger Forsythe scored a surprise upset over defending champion Joe Howard in the shot put, throwing 42' 4'' for his first major

victory.

It was truly a team victory as the Maroons, running without the aid of their graduate contingent, did creditably in all events. Loomos picked up a second in the 60-yd. dash and ran on the meetdeciding 8-lap relay to lead Maroon scorers with 11 points.

Shephard is team workhorse

Dave Shephard, team workhorse, placed third in the dash, third in the broad jump, fifth in the lows, and ran on two Chicago relays to contribute 10 V^ points to the team cause. Dan Trifone had his best effort of the year in the high jump, soaring 5'10%" to tie for first and also ran fourth in the high hurdles.

In the distant events, Paul Baptist finished strong to cop a third in the two-mile, with Jim Flynn adding a fifth in this event. Flynn, was later to come back and get a fifth in the mile, the point that might well have decided the meet.

The only graduate student used by the Maroons was Morgan Damerow, who was conspicious throughout the meet running here and there giving aid and comfort to the runners in many invaluable ways. The victory served to answer those critics of the Chicago team who have contended in the past that the Maroon’s strength came primarily from graduate students.

City Club’s invitation to

SPORTS EVENTS THIS QUARTER Tomorrow Fencing Notre Dame & Lawrence Tech 1 :30 Field-House Track Chicago and Midwest Con- ference Meet 6:30 Field-House Saturday, March 20 Track Central AAU Meet 7:30 Field-House Friday and Saturday, Mar. 26-27 Fencing National Collegiate Meet Bartlett Gym Saturday, April 3 Track Wisconsin Teachers 2:00 Field-House

Stapley accepts trophy

Stapley, who accepted the team trophy for Chicago, commented, “We’ve beaten both Loyola and Wheaton without the benefit of our transfer students. I guess they’ll have to think up some other excuse, now, for our consistent victories over them and other opponents.”

Thus far this year, Chicago has lost but one meet—to Marquette University — while winning over 19 teams. This Saturday, the Maroonmen will play host to the Midwest Conference in a track meet at the Field House at 6:30 p.m.

good going..;

Win a Chevrolet Corvette

1rt MIZI—’54 Chavrolat (ttntti

2nd MUM—ll,0M.H in cash MUS 900 MIZES—# pair of CITY (LI!

Amigos

WINNER OF FIRST GRAND PRIZE, if ntry is on Offietui Entry Blank obtained from a City Club dealer, will receive additional $250 cash prize for opera tint costs.

in the big, easy

City Club shoe contest!

— NOTHING TO BUY—ENTER NOW. SIMPLE RULES OF THE CONTEST: —

1. In 25 word* or Ie** tell why “I like City Club Shoe* ’’

2. Send in as many entries as you wish, but each must be on a separate piece of paper. Print your name and address clearly.

3. It is not necessary to use an Official entry blank but handy entry blanks may be procured at your City Club Dealer (they carry an extra advantage—see note above).

4. Mail all entries to Peters Shoe Company, Dept. C3, Box 5995, Chicago 77, Illinois.

5. Contest starts March 15—ends May 15, 1954. All entries postmarked before midnight May 15 and received by May 22 eligible.

A. Entries will be judged on originality, aptness and sincerity by the Reuben H. Donnelley Corp T Judges’ decision final. Duplicate prizes in case of ties. No entries returned. Entries and ideas therein become property of Peters Shoe Company to be used as it sees fit. Winners will be notified by mail.

7. Contest open to all residents of continental United States and Canada. Contest not open to employees of Peters Shoe Co., of City Club Dealers, of their Advertising Agency, nor their families.

SEE your City Hub doalor. Or for name of your nearest dealer, write:

Peter* Shoe Company, St. Louie 3, Missouri

Loyola sweeps city swim meet, UC places last

Loyola University’s swimming team swept the Chicago Intercollegiate Swimming and Diving Meet, winning all 12 events, to receive their second consecutive championship.

Maroon splashers came out on the short end of the competition held last Saturday afternoon in Bartlett Pool. They trailed the field and wound up in last place with 32 points. Loyola with 93 was followed by Wright Junior College with 37 and by the Illini of Navy Pier with 34.

Chicago’s 300 yard medley felay team placed second while Howie Jenkin took a second place in the 100 yard backstroke and a third in the 200 yard race in the same stroke.

J COMO PIZZERIA

1520 E. 55th St.

• Bar-be-cue chicken

• Bar-be-cue ribs

Delivery Anywhere

FA 4-5525 THE CHICAGO MAROON

March 12, 1954

M^m MHUUl Ri*! WHO®

Classified For Rent

Bedroom apartments. $70 month. Free gas light. Two blocks U of C. Newly decorated. R. Tobias, 949 E. 54th Pl. OO 3-4351.

Kitchenette, ideal for 1 or 2. 6055 S. Dorchester, MI 3-9372.

Newly decorated Di-room furnished apts. 2 blocks from University. Linens, daily maid service, reasonable rent. 6107 Dorchester Ave., PL 2-9641.

Rides Wanted

Want round-trip ride to Boston. Leave March 19. Grace Belson, Int. House.

Wilson. 713B B-J, MI 3-6000, wants ride to Little Rock, Arkansas, or any point south. Share expenses.

Riders Wanted

Riders to Los Angeles leaving March 18. Share expenses. Contact Wolf Roder, 5555 Kenwood, FA 4-9191.

^omitt^ cam^fid events c* 6nie^

Friday, March, 12

The Business Club will hold its weekly eoffee and discussion group from 4-5:30 p.m. in the second floor lounge of Haskell Hall. H. J. Leavitt will speak on “Groups vs. Individuals in an Industrial Society.” \

Saturday, March 13

A Broadcast of the Quarterly Exam Music for Humanities I will be heard on station WUCB 7:30 p.m. WUCB, 640 kc., may be heard on any radio in BJ or C-group. For further information, contact John Lyon, 740, BJ.

Sunday, March 14

Convocation Sunday will be observed at the University Religious Service, 11 a.m., Rockefeller Chapel. Reverend Charles W. Gilkey, dean emeritus of the Chapel, will speak on “Life’s Second-Bests.”

Quarterly Exam Music for Humanities I will be broadcast 2:30 p.m., 7:30 p.m.

A Carillon Recital, with James R. Lawson as Carillonneur, will take place at Rockefeller Chapel at 4 p.m.

Collegium Musicum Concert will be held 8:30 p.m. in Mandel Hall Richard Vickstrom will conduct.

Monday, March 15

“The Bank Dick,” a US film, will be shown at International House, east lounge, 7 and 9 p.m. Admission 35 cents.

Tuesday, March 16

Inter-Varsity Christian Fellowship will sponsor its weekly Speaker Luncheon at Ida Noyes, 3rd floor, from 12:30 to 1:20. “Why i Believe” is the subject of the talk that will be delivered by Dr. Buker, Foreign Secretary of the Conservative Baptist Ministers Society. Everyone is invited.

Wednesday, March 17

James R. Lawson, Carilloneur, will give a carillon recital at Rockefeller Chapel, 4:30 p.m.

Science Fiction Club will hold its regular weekly meeting In the Ida Noyes Library, 7:30 p.m. “A Critique of Professional Science Fiction Critics” will be given by E. E. Smith, leading American science fiction author.

Thursday, March 18

“It Happened One Night” is the American film that will be shown at International House, East Lounge, at 7 and 9 p.m. Admission is 35 cents. * .

Miami—Leave March 19. Will take 2 or 3 riders. New car. $15. Samuel Kovnat, B-J.

Am going to New York over interim. Will take passengers on round trip. BU 8-9381, Johnson.

One rider to Los Angeles leaving Wed.. March 17. E. Brussell, phone BU 8-2744. ’54 car.

Today's Chesterfield is the

Going South? Room for 2 to Columbia. Missouri and or Oklahoma City. 3-18-’54. J Relchmpn, MI 3-6000.

For Sale

Best Cigarette Ever Made!

Wanted

Help Wanted

Be a WUCB engineer. No pay. Unreasonable hours. See Bill Silverman, Engineering Director. 544 B-J.

Twin Oxford chairs, chartreuse tweed. Excellent condition. Evenings, PL 2-0949.

$275, 1941 Cadillac four-door sedan. Like new, motor, radio, heater. Call Morris Levin. RE 7-8109.

Samsonite four-suiter. Like new. $20. Phone Ext. 1072 after 6.30 p.m. Ask for Jack Ratliff.

'19 Dodge. One owner car. Excellent condition. Call MU 4-6763.

Used microscope for school boy. HY 3-3087.

I’m tired of walking and of soap operas. Want girl’s bicycle, FM radio. Rm. 418, Int House.

Typist for book length manuscript, partly from records, partly from manuscript. Call KE 8-2126 after 5 p.m.

Receptionist - typist, over 21, Monday through Thursday, 7-10 p.m. Salary S1.24-S1.35 per hour. Call Miss Stern, MU 4-5125.

Counselors, summer camps. Men and women, nineteen years and up. Salary and living. Lands sports, waterfront, music, nature, other opportunities. Chicago Camping Association, Mandel Brothers, Chicago.

Services

Quick, perfect manuscript typing, stories, novels, poetry, essays, term papers— 20c page, 10c each carbon page. Ray, PL 2-1094.

Mathematics. Special instruction to fit your mathematical needs. Individual or group sessions. Albert Soglin, ST 2-6727

Riteway Radio Service, the “Dynamic’’ way. Pick-up and delivery service. Call SAginaw 1-7314.

Personals

Driving South to Dybbuk at Mandel Hall on April 4 No expenses for riders. Call PL 2-1127.

File petition now for summer OMP class.

WHERE THE U OF C MEETS TO EAT

Gc Vlcrn’a

-FINE FOOD1 3 2 1 East 5 7th Street

FOR SALE

Cooperative Apartment — 7 rooms, 3 baths, 4 exposures, elevator.

Near University HY 3-9137

Test Tube

Mysteries

“Always loved to probe the unknown, so my job as secretary to the head chemist is made for me.... Katie Gibbs has the happy knack of matching the girl and the job.”

Every year hundreds of college women use Gibbs

secretarial training to secure the right job and assure rapid promotion. Special Course for College Women. Write College Dean for “Gibbs Girls at Work.”

KATHARINE GIBBS

SECRETARIAL

B03F0M is, 90 Marlborough St. NEW YORK 17, 230 Park Ave

CHICAGO 11. 51 E Superior St PROVIDENCE S, 155 Angell St MONTCLAIR, N 1,33 Plymouth St,

the taste

you want—the mildness you want

&'V

highest quality—low nicotine

R &Ofe America^ ^Popular

CHESTERFIELD

Bcsrfogyov