Extension of pre-fab demo

Pre-fab dwellers may be able to stay In their homes past June 1,1955. A request for gradual demolition of the prefabricated housing units on campus will be made by the University to the city, Robert M. Strozier, dean of students, announced this week.

The pre-fabs must come down by June 1 unless the request for gradual demolition is granted, according to Strozier, since the final city extension of a two-year permit issued in 1947

expires July 1.

“The University is gravely concerned about the housing of married students,” Strozier stated. “If we are permitted the time. I hope we can do the job (of relocation).”

Pre fab people were given preference when eleven new apartments were opened this fall, and will continue to be given preference, said Ruth Mc Carn, assistant dean of students. The vacancies in the pre fabs will be filled as long as the city allows the University to do so, she added.

Conflicting reports

Reports varied as to the exact code requirements violated by the pre-fabs.

Strozier said that the buildings were not made of fire-resistant materials, and had no fire breaks or fire lanes.

According to Angus C. Turner, supervisor of maintenance of University pre-fabricated housing, the fire department has inspected the buildings and has given its approval. Only the zoning laws are broken, not fire requirements, he said.

University of Chicago, November 12, 1954

'No Smoking' in Harper?

“NO SMOKING!” signs have been removed from reading room E-ll of Harper library.

Smoking is now permitted in E-ll, which formerly contained the open reserve shelves.

Harper library has lacked a “smoking permitted” reading room since 1950, when the college library, now the reference room, was closed.

Stanley E. Gwynn, assistant library director, stated that the delay in establishing a smoking room was due to the library’s inability to find a room to which people who could not tolerate smoke would not be compelled to go to get a special book. With the removal of E-ll open reserve books to Harper reserve, however, only Buildings and Grounds regulations stood in the way of granting smoking permission; permission was obtained in October of this year.

Georgie and Bob March square dance at the NAACP-sponsored Wayseed Iloedown Saturday. Over one hundred and forty people came to dance and hear Big Bill Broonzy sing.

Zoned for apartments

The city department of zoning also said the buildings are in an area zoned for apartment use. Harry Kane, of the zoning department, said that the zoning laws would not permit pre fabs in the three areas where the present buildings stand, “for any reason.”

W. L. Krogman, UC business manager of campus operations, stated: “The main thing is the fire laws ... the city code requires that the buildings be built of certain materials.” However, he said that he did not know the details of the city extension agreements, and that the original agreement was “before my time.”

Made of plywood

The small pre fabs are made of plywood treated with fire-preventive material, Turner said. The barracks, which also are slated to be razed, have plasterboard walls. Frame structures must have a half inch of gypsum under the exterior siding, and either a half inch of plaster or five-eighths inch of sheet rock on the inside, Robert Donovan of the building department said.

Few fires

“Our record of fires over the eight and a half years is very, very small,” Turner stated, reporting that there have been four fires which caused damage. Every pre-fab is equipped with a navytype 50-pound CO.2 fire extinguisher which is checked periodically, according to Turner. Krogman stated that the original city agreement called for fire extinguishers.

Neither the legal counsel for the University nor the Building and Grounds department expressed any knowledge of the exact nature of the violations of either the building code or the zoning laws.

Came from government

The pre fabs were made available to the University by the government in 1947, Strozier said. “We never would have constructed this type of housing.” They were made available to meet the problem caused by the large number of veterans in school. Originally they could house no more than five per cent non-veterans

See ‘Extension,’ page 11

°^^ 31

Mendes-France policies theme of Aron lectures

Often called “the Walter Lippmann of France," Raymond Aron, French professor and newspaper writer, will discuss the problems and policies of French Premier Mendes-France in a series of two lectures to be given Monday and Tuesday at 8 p.m. in Breasted hall.

‘Mendes-France and the French political crisis” will be the subject of Aron’s Monday talk. He will discuss “The foreign policy of Mendes-France” on Tuesday. Admission to the lectures is without ticket or charge.

Writes column, speaks

Aron is a columnist for the French paper Le Figaro and a professor in the institute of political science of the University of Paris.

He is described as a “brilliant speaker who is in complete control of the English language” by professor Hans J. Morgenthau, chairman of the UC center for the study of American foreign policy which is sponsoring Aron’s lectures in conjunction with the UC committee on international relations.

Authors many books

“Aron* is also a very distinguished systematic writer on world affairs who has a number of first rate books to his credit,” Morgenthau continued. “It might be of interest to an academic community to point out that Aron made his reputation first as a theoretical sociologist on contemporary theories of sociology and philosophy of history.”

Aron’s study, The Century of Total War, was published this year and received the first page feature review in the New York Times book review supplement.

Two children play in front of one of the 341 prefabs which may have to be demolished in June.

Noah’s Ark, Utopia, Frontier: unique themes for 3 dances

The Noah’s Ark dance, sponsored by the Burton-Judson (B-J) and Inter-Dormitory (I-D) councils, will take place in the Cloister club of Ida Noyes from 9 a.m. until midnight tomorrow.

Bill Heller and his five-piece orchestra will provide the music, and “Papa George” Wellworth, well-known Viennese comedian, will appear with his troupe in a series of skits. Refreshments will be served, and dance programs will be distributed at the door.

Tickets admitting one couple to this all-campus, informal dance can be purchased in advance from any member of the B-J or I D council for $1.75. They will also be sold at the door.

Any money taken in which is not used to pay for the dance will be put aside to finance future I-D and B-J events.

* * * .

“The University of Utopia.” an institution almost as familiar to the campus as UC itself, will be the theme of the quarterly formal to be held at International house tomorrow evening.

This all campus function which will be “stag-or-drag” and will range from semi-formal to formal, is under the auspices of the

Organize board to stir up UCers

A new student organization, the Undergraduate Educational board, has recently been formed to increase student participation in educational affairs and to study some of the problems in the undergraduate curriculum.

This year it intends to study some problem areas in the undergraduate programs and in student-faculty relations. “We haven’t made detailed plans yet,” announced Russell Leaf, chairman. “We want to wait till our membership is increased and we have completed arrangements with Student Government on activities coordination.”

The group’ was organized informally through the efforts of SG president Al Fortier, Fred Solomon, SRP chairman Larry Lichtenstein, and Leaf. It is a nonpartisan non - political organization.

Charles Wegener, chairman of the college OMP course, is faculty sponsor of the group. Anyone interested should contact Russell Leaf, Joe Shimhel, Jim Rosenblum, Carolyn Eggert, Davis Bobrow, Coleman Seskind, or Palmyra Morton,

The next meeting will take place next Thursday for the purpose of incorporating new members and setting up working committees. The place of the meeting will be announced later.

Int house council.

Entertainment, including authentic Hawaiian hula - dancers and a hypnotist, will be a feature of the dance, as well as refreshments. goal-posts, and free corsages for the ladies. Admission, when paid in advance, is $1; at the door, $1.25.

 * ♦

Square dancing with Ned Chapin calling will be the main feature of Hitchcock house’s second annual Frontier Party, to be held tomorrow beginning at 8:15 p.m. in the house basement. Social dancing and refreshments will also be available for the uninitiated. Women will be admitted free.

Ben Shahn,famed painter,to talk on artistic comment

“Social commentary in art” will be discussed by Ben Shahn. American painter, in the 192nd William Vaughn Moody lecture. The lecture, free to the public, will be held Tuesday at 8:30 p.m. in Mandel hall.

Shahn. who achieved his first fame with a series of satirical paintings on the Sacco and Vanzetti case in 1927, was awarded one of the three top prizes at the Biennale Exhibition of International Art in Venice this year. He is noted both for his colorful and realistic oil paintings, and for murals such as he executed for the Social Security building.in Washington in 1940-1942.

A reception for Shahn will be held after the lecture by the Renaissance society of the University of Chicago.

The Renaissance society is currently exhibiting recent prints by Shahn, as well as works by the International Graphic Arts society in the galleries at Goodspeed hall. .We're sorry

Monday, January 3, will be a University holiday this year, not Tuesday, January 4 as was reported in the Maroon last issue. .

The holiday was added in accordance with a new University policy of holding no classes on the Monday following a Saturday or Sunday holiday. January L New Year’s Day, falls on Saturday.

Residence halls will be open Monday, January 3, rather than Sunday, January 2, as the University had earlier announced. Page 2

r HE CHICAGO MAROON

November 12, 1954

MAROON mystery photo

Civil War in Vincent house? fifth floor secedes, temporarily

Civil war almost occurred recently in Burt on-Judson as the fifth floor of Vincent house seceded from the rest of the house to form, as Emil Johnson, the fifth floor representative, stated, “a free house in a free society.”

When a proposal was made at a Vincent house council meeting for a cultural event, Johnson moved to substitute a pencil sharpener instead. Silence followed. Don Mc Clintock, president-elect, mounted the rostrum and demanded a vote of censure for the fifth floor for

“avaricious and contumacious conduct.” He attacked Johnson’s bill as “floor rights” and made comparisons with Tidelands oil. With a two thirds vote supporting Mc Clintock’s demand, the fifth floor was censured.

Plead to reconsider

When the house council was called to order two weeks later, Johnson pleaded for a reconsideration of the censure, citing the social castigation placed against the fifth floor as a result. The council refused.

Marvin Kaplan, representative of the fifth floor convention, then entered the council meeting and solemnly read the following: “When in the course of human events it becomes necessary for

one floor to dissolve the bands that bound it to the other four, and to assume among other rights that equal station to which nature and nature’s God entitled them Therefore, with a firm belief in divine providence to which the fifth floor is so near, we declare ourselves henceforth and forevermore a free and independent floor with all the rights that appertain to this station.”

Elect head

Terence Sandalow was elected resident head of the new one-floor Robert E. Lee house a few minutes later. A movement began for an exchange dinner with Kelly and membership to the BJ council.

After this election barricades

were built between fourth and fifth floors.

Mc Clintock then made a final appeal to reason.

House stands

- Following last minute conferences the fifth floor acquiesced for the sake of unity. The following evening in emergency session Mc Clintock said, “It is indeed gratifying to me, and to the entire house, that in the 11th houi' the fifth floor realized and respected the glorious sanctity of the union. The house stands again stalwart and undivided. Freedom without union is anarchy; union without freedom is tyranny.”

The fifth floor representative then added “We shall render unto God what is God’s and unto Me Wento finds Babylonian lion denizen of Oriental Institute

Socialist club to hear

American Socialist editor

Clintock what is Mc Clintock’s.”

YOU MAY NOW

TELEPHONE YOUR

The lion in last week’s myste Edward F. Wento, a student institute was the first student ylonian lion, also from the Oriental institute.

Wento noticed the photograph while reading the Maroon at breakfast in the coffee shop.

The first UC student to reach

Student service book charges cut

A five cent reduction in the

ry photo does reside on campus, of egyptology at the Oriental to correctly identify, the Babthe Maroon office with the correct location of this week’s mystery photo will receive a carton of Philip Morris cigarettes, entries should have the name, address, and telephone number of the entrant. The cigarettes are donated by the Philip Morris company.

Entries must be brought to the Maroon office and must state what the object is and where it is located.

Bert Cochran, editor of the American Socialist, will be Monday's guest speaker before the Socialist club at 7:30 p.m. in Ida Noyes hall. His topic will be: “A Socialist looks at America.”

Cochran is a former organizer for the MESA-CIO and was also welfare director of the United Auto Workers (CIO). His

magazine was recently denied the privilege of being sold in the University bookstore.

Cochran is also scheduled, to debate with Sid Lens, local labor leader and author, on the topic “Is Mao’s China the Road to Freedom in Asia?” tonight at the Fine Arts building, 410 South Michigan

avenue, at 8 p.m. Kermit Eby of the social sciences department will chair the debate.

CLASSIFIED ADS

CALL

Ml

3-0080, EXT. 1009 MONDAY

WEDNESDAY

2 - 5

THE (AMPIN DREG STORE

Gist A Ellis — Opposite BJ

service charge collected by the Student Government Student Service Center on books sold for under 50 cents was announced by Eb Heavilin. chairman of the SG student needs committee, at the SG meeting Tuesday.

The charge will be ten cents, instead of 15c. The rate for books sold for over 50c remains at approximately ten percent plus a nickel.

Since the book exchange was moved from the basement of Cobb hall to the present Reynolds club basement location, it has shown consistent profit. The profit made by the exchange is used to pay the original expense of setting up the center.

INTERNATIONAL HOIST MOTTES

Assembly Hall, Monday and Thursday Evenings at 8:30 P.M.

Nov. 15 — THE WAVE (REDES) (Mexican) — Admission 45c

Nov. 18 — RHAPSODY IN BLUE (American) — Admission 35c

Meet Your Friends in the COLLEGE ROOM Serving Good Food and Soda Refreshment Until 11 P.M.

Chicago Symphony every Wednesday night at Jimmy's

1172 E. 55th

Students' Favorite

LAUNDROMAT

For the Past Six Years 1. Efficient Laundromat

Service

2. Shirts - Flat Work All Laundry Services

3. Lowest Prices in

Hyde Park

Come In and See Our Newly Remodeled Store with the LATEST Equipment

UNIVERSITY

LAUNDROMAT

1376 E. 55th St. PL 2-9097

Custom design of announcements, circulars and posters Mimeo and ditto artwork variable type styles toith the Vari-typer at the HYDE PARK LETTER: SHOP

5646 S. Harper Ave. >37) HYde Park 3-5343

SPECIAL DISCOUNTS TO UNIVERSITY PEOPLE

JEWEL CONOCO Service Slatinn and Perfect Car Wash 5GOI South Colt age Grove ML l-GIOG

SEE OUR LARGE SELECTION OF FINE PERFUMES AND COLOGNE HOLIDAY WRAPPED E

N

N

R

E

D

H

o

s

A SNACK

A LUNCH

A MEAL

On a freshly steamed bun, we tenderly place the puppy dog — not a wiener, but a VIENNA puppy dog — red hot-r-pure

beef — accompanied by mustard, relish, onions and hot pepper, complete with a generous portion of our

25

famous french fried potatoes which are often imitated but never excelled. Our

NEDLOG orange and root beer is unequaled and no extra charge ‘

out containers.

is made for carry

PUPPY TOWN

open until 1351 E. 55th Street

1 A.M.

DO 3-9366

* Orders over $1.00 delivered '

 

C^fr EMBARRASSED BY LOOSE DANDRUFF ? WILDROOT CREAM OIL REMOVES IT & KEEPS HAIR NEAT ALL DAY-^ November 12, 1954

THE CHICAGO MAROON

Page 3

SDA chapter organizes again

after IS-month activity lapse

Election of new officers was the principal item on the agenda |;ist week when Students for Democratic Action (SDA) held its first meeting of the last year and one half.

Johnson remembersefforts

in Stevenson movement

A policy-making meeting has been arranged for next Tuesday at 4 p.m. in Soc Sci 22 to which all interested persons ate invited.

Officers elected at the first meeting were Dan Burkholder, president; John Gilmore, vice president; Don Miller, secretary; and Milt Kotler, treasurer.

The business of the meeting also included an address by Grover Simmons, field secretary of SDA concerning the objectives of the organization. This was fol Civil Services want scientists

The United States Civil Service commission has announced an examination for student trainees, covering positions in various fields of science and engineering. The positions pay $2,750 to $3,175 a year and are located in various activities of the Potomac River Naval command in Washington, D. C.

Applicants must have completed courses which would admit them to an engineering curriculum at college. Those selected wilt participate in special training programs requiring alternate periods of attendance at college and work in one of the activities named above.

Further information and application forms may be obtained at many post offices throughout the country, or from the US Civil Service commission, Washington 25. D. C.

lowed by a discussion and the formal entrance of 23 members to the campus group.

Having been reactivated, the Chicago chapter sent a delegation to the SDA regional meeting, held last Sunday at De Paul University. Three UC’ers were elected among the officers of regional SDA, Jim Werner (regional chairman), Maggie Nash (corresponding secretary), and Dan Burkholder'(national board representative).

At the meeting of the regional group, a definite stand was adopted in favor of the censure of Senator Joseph Mc Carthy; a letter was sent to SDA national headquarters recommending that they send a delegation to the Senate supporting the censure motion.

Projects reports were given by the participating colleges. The role of the chapter at UC is yet to be determined.

Judge color slides at open meeting

A showing and public judging of color slides will be presented by the University Camera club at 7:30 next Wednesday in Eckhart 202.

This quarter’s contest will be judged by Joshua C. Taylor, assistant professor of art in the college and the art department, and Carl Stoffels, University alumnus and perennial Camera club member.

Although the contest entries are limited to club members, all interested persons are invited to the meeting.

by Sue Donim

In the first two of six Walgreen lectures, Walter Johnson recalled his efforts to make the reluctant candidate, Adlai Stevenson, wear the mantle of Democratic party leader.

Johnson was a leader of the “draft Stevenson” movement. Professor of history and chairman of the history department, he was co-chairman — first with lawyer Grant Overton and later with editor Leo Lerner — of the pre-convention committee, which did much to publicize the merits and record of the Illinois Governor. Later, Johnson was a member of Stevenson’s round-the-world expedition.

Johnson’s lectures will be continued today, Monday, Wednesday and next Friday in Soc Sci 122, at 4:30 p.m.

Discusses maneuvering

Much of what Johnson described is not unknown — Truman’s withdrawal from the ’52 race; Stevenson's refusal to run while not committing himself on accepting; and the ever-present rumor that he would be the candidate, the choice of party leaders Colonel Jack Arvey and President Truman and of the convention.

What was of more interest, however, was the discussion of the maneuvering of this group of "political amateurs” to get their candidate nominated. Slighted by party bosses, usually penniless, the Stevenson committee nevertheless attracted much attention throughout the nation from people wanting knowledge of Stevenson, and much support by volun Regional NSA meeting plans discussion, solution of problems

Illinois colleges and universities participating in the National Student association (NSA) will meet at the University of Illinois November 19-21. Among those schools are the University of Illinois, Northwestern University, and the University of Chicago.

Designed to supplement the annual National Student congress, regional assemblies enable students from neighboring schools to air their problems and express their opinions. Subject matter is that which "affects students as students,” whether on the local campus level, nationally, or internationally.

The assembly is to be an informative and problem-solving session. NSA’s low-cost travel program, regional sponsorship of an Academic Freedom week, and methods of developing student government will be included among discussion topics.

The United States National Student association, of which the University of Chicago is an active member, plays a role in national and international affairs with

THE

PERFECT

S CHRISTMAS

THE REVISED STANDARD VERSION

BIBLE

®'<,’, ^o^r *of your friendj and deaf

olne your RSVB gift

*n 9°^ °* nominal

wl SUGGEST THESE RSVB GIFT EDITIONS:

Black genuine leather ...„.$10.00

Black 3.50

Black leather India paper edition 9.00

WOODWORTH'S BOOK STORE

1311 E. 57th St.

teer workers—"mainly University of Chicago students.”

Always lacked funds

The greatest obstacle the committee faced, Johnson said, was lack of funds. Always operating on a shoestring, committee coffers were empty after every Stevenson attempt to withdraw himself from the race. Alone of these times, a contributor noted that this was “probably the lostest cause I ever supported.”

Also, the committee was handicapped in that it had no relation with Governor Stevenson or the Democratic party, and could not purport to speak for either. This was also an asset, for when Stevenson called upon Illinois Democrats to refrain from activity on his behalf, the committee, being independent, lay outside the bounds of his request.

Print campaign buttons

Slowly the committee forged

which American students are concerned.

USNSA is one of the five sponsoring organizations of World University service in the United States, and the only sponsor not affiliated with a student religious organization. USNSA representatives hold standing invitations to attend sessions of the American Council on Education and the National Education association. An NSA representative sits upon the United States National Commission on UNESCO.

Study effects of mass media on various segments of public

Three members of the faculty will meet at 7:30 p.m. Thursday to examine “The man mass media made.”

Approaching the subject from the viewpoint of three different disciplines, they will discuss the image of man which has been created by our press, radio and television. Participating in the symposium are Joe Kamiya (psychology), Henry W. Sams (English), and Charles W. Wegener (humanities).

Edward R. Murrow’s “See It Now” program on Senator Mc Carthy will be screened in Soc Sci 122 and will serve as focus of the discussion. Each of the partici SEE: In Yestigotion of a school teacher Purge of a ghost THE ENCHANTED 
][ You are cordially invited to a ”

= Free Lecture on Christian Science i I * entitled “Christian Science and the I ► ] £ Search for Cause” I ►

o * By Robert S. Von Atto, C.S., of Rochester, N.Y^ Member of the * * 4! Board of Lectureship of The First Church of Christ, Scientist, in . • ’ ’ Boston, Massachusetts. , *

FRIDAY, NOV. 12, AT 8 P.M, ;

BREASTED HALL ahead with its work, printing brochures, buttons (which merely said "Stevenson” so they could be used for the gubernatorial race "just in case”), and contacting delegates to the 1952 convention.

Thwarted by the Conrad Hilton hotel.when they wished to open headquarters there, because they were not an official committee, the group was able to rent three rooms on the hotel’s 15th floor because "one of the committee members just happened to be the lawyer for the Hilton chain.’*

Enlarge headquarters

By the time delegates started to arrive at the convention, campaign headquarters had to be enlarged, and a special switchboard with private lines installed, so that the committee could contact all the delegates, reporters and convention workers who flocked to the 15th floor.

A supply of 1,000 tie-pin buttons labeled "America needs Stevenson for President” was quickly exhausted and the replenishments sold for as much as $10 each.

Prepare nomination

Initial ground work was laid for placing Stevenson’s name in nomination. Contacts were made with Indiana’s Governor Henry Schricker, though reports of his support—as Johnson explained— were greatly exaggerated in news; paper stories.

By this time, the prime topic of convention discussion and press comment was the question "would Stevenson run?” and the amazement at the enthusiasm of Johnson’s committee, working so diligently for a candidate who wasn’t running.

(Next week’s Maroon will cover later lectures in this series.)

pants will then comment on the nature of the presentation in its probable effects on various segments of the public.

In the course of the discussion implications of mass communications for the small group and for the individual in urban society will be considered. The program is sponsored by the Communications club of the University, and is open to everyone. f HE CHICAGO MAROON

November 12, 1954

Editoriol v

Election results

American public

give Senate clear mandate: wishes Mc Carthy censured

Last Monday the US Senate convened to consider a matter of great importance to all Americans — the censure of the junior senator from Wisconsin, Joseph R. Mc Carthy.

At this time few persons will deny that the adverse impact Mc Carthy has had upon free inquiry and democratic legal practices has extended far tteyond his own power. This is reflected by the use of the term “mccarthyism” among increasingly greater sections of the American public and press to characterize the methods of political action and behavior that personify the junior senator.

Before discussing the censure motion, we optimistically take note of the defeat of many of Mc Carthy’s most ardent supporters — Senator Homer Ferguson, would-be-senator Joseph Meek, representatives Fred Busby and Charles Kersten. Likewise, we note the trends indicated by the election of many anti-Mc Carthy candidates such as Senator-elect Clifford Case in New' Jersey. This was not a denial to office of all pro-Mc Carthy candidates, but the majority did receive a decisive defeat at the polls.

It would appear that the Senate now has a mandate to censure Mc Carthy. The wrath of the American citizen is more likely to go against Mc Carthy’s supporters than his opponents.

Mc Carthy friends striking back

But where has this wrath been expressed? One thing is certain: that Mc Carthy's supporters are not sitting back. Within the last few weeks numerous meetings throughout the country and announcements by public figures have planned and urged a march on Washington to protest the “unfair" treatment being given their Joe.

Mc Carthy still has a sizable number of supporters in the Senate, but at this moment the bulk of the Senate is composed of men who have not taken any definite stand on the censure. These persons will take their cue from the American people. If Mc Carthy’s backers alone are vocal, there will be correspondingly greater support for Mc Carthy in the Senate.

Thus, we cannot sit idly by and assume that the Senate will censure Mc Carthy. And, if Mc Carthy is censured, what happens to mccarthyism?

Recounting some of the effects of the climate of mccarthyism, we recall the extensive Congressional inquiries into the educational field, the denial of passports to prominent Americans, loyalty oaths for teachers — all practices which have little consideration for traditional constitutional rights.

These aspects of mccarthyism will not disappear the day after Mc Carthy is censured, but the censure will be a significant strike in the fight against mccarthyism. With the leader of the forces of mccarthyism repudiated by the American people and the highest lawmaking body in the land, an atmosphere will be provided that can lead to the complete repudiation of mccarthyism by the American people.

More staffers equal more staffers,

or, the chicken will bring the egg

Resolved: that, the Maroon staff must be enlarged before the Maroon staff can be enlarged, or which comes first, the chicken or the egg?

When the staff is as small as it is at present, each reporter must write two to five stories per week, besides helping with editing and arrangement of the stories in the paper. Tins is where the chicken and the egg come in. Staff members often express a desire to study, and finding no time for all that the Maroon asks of them, resign. Then, the remaining stories must be divided among a smaller group. Reporters who last week found time to write three stories must this week write five, and next week seven. Soon, they too must resign.

If our present rate continues, figuring on the basis of returns now' in, by March 1, 1955, the editor will be the only staff member remaining. Only by increasing the size of the present staff can

At the moment it is important to note that the majority of the Senate appears to be composed of men who have not taken any definite stand on the Mc Carthy censure. These pei-sons will have to take their cue from the American people. If Mc Carthy’s supporters alone are vocal, then there will be cor, respondingly greater support for Mc Carthy in the Senate.

The senators must know where the American people definitely stand on the questions of mccarthyism, if they are to support the censure motion. Members of the University community have an important stake in preventing mccarthyism from adding more restrictions to free inquiry. Only the outspoken protest from all sections of the American people can give the censure of Mc Carthy a significant role in preserving our traditional civil liberties.

we increase the size of the present staff! Besides that, the editor doesn’t write well under pressure.

So, we will train people who know nothing, and listen to people who have ideas. We want to print a better paper, with full coverage of all important campus organizations, all important campus events, and even some of the unimportant ones.

The main requirement for reporters is dependability; the ability to do what is assigned if possible, or to tell the news editors, the sports, or feature editors that it cannot be done. The edited can rewrite only those things which are written. If you are dependable, and have a few hours a week, you can do something about the lopsided coverage, the errors in fact, and the other sins of the present paper. Without more staff members, we cannot cut down the load on each individual member, and thereby increase membership. We want the chicken, so that we can have the egg.

Letters to

The Editor

Student hits soap-sending

For quite some time I have intended to write a letter to the Maroon readers concerning my views on student politics al the U of C, hut I have always been deterred from doing so for fear that my opinions were perhaps, held by too few people to be of general interest io the public.

However, since my return this year, I have come to the realization that many people and I are in complete accord about the deplorable state of politics on this campus. 1 was a student here during 1951-52, and I hoped, when I left at the end of that school

Issued once weekly by the publisher. The Chicago Maroon, at the publication office, 5706 South Universify Avenue, Chicago 37, Illinois. Telephones: Editorial Office, Midway 3-0800, Ext. 1010; Business and Advertising Offices, Midway 3-0800, Ext. 1009. Distributed free of charge, and subscriptions by nsail, $3 per year. Business Office hours; I to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday.

ALLEN R. J ANGER editor-in-chief

RICHARD E. editor

WILLIAM manager

Executive news editor

Hews editors Diana Epstein, Bob Quinn, Dovid Schlessinger Feature Suzanne Friedmann

Sports Pinney

Production Roberta B Hopkins

Photography editor Charles Cooper

Copy Carlsson

Personnel manager Jock Burboch

Local advertising Mokotoff

Editorial staff Poul Baptist, Sam Blazer, Robert Bloch, Alice Bloom, Roget Bowen, Jack Burboch, Alon Charlens, John Conelly, Bob Emmitt, Rosemary Galli, Lois Gardner, Som Greenlee, Ronald Grossman, Ralph Hirsch, Bill Kaplan, Joe Picheny, Gory Schwartz, Norman Swenson, Frank Ternenyi, John Twomy, Prentiss Choote, Joe Abatie, Bonnie Greatmon, Ed Regal, Fred Freed, Jeon Kwon, Poul Breslow, Sue lox, Mitchell Slain, Carolyn Martinettl.

 Jokahki, Victor p MOkk, Som Tipton, Joe Wo U

year that the sensibility of the student politicals would be a little higher when I returned I have been disappointed.

I have spent the major part of the last two years in Europe where I was most fortunate in being able to see a few of the many cultures there, and to hear the views of many people of varied nationalties. The sojourn has been most profitable to me in many ways, but, above ail, I have been most impressed with the fact that our American prestige has been, is now, anti (if I am to take the students here as a measure of what is to come) has a good chance of remaining, on a steady decline.

The Europeans have come to feel that our government is composed of (and managed by) men who respond to the situation like little children with a new toy;

Joy Burboch

and, to be quite frank, it would take little persuasion to prompt me to agree wiry them. My opinions, of course, are those of a mere layman, and I have been unable. most regrettably, to hear Dr. Morgenthau speak on this subject here at the U.

Such things as Mc Carthyism have definiteiy lowered our standing abroad, and let me say here that I am certainly anti Mc Carthy. But, if T were back in Europe, I can truthfully sax that J would smart just as much with embarrassment' if it were known that a group of my fellow students sent signatures tied to soap cakes to a senator, as 1 smarted when the name ‘'Mc Carthy” was mentioned in my presence by an European. And, more than once, my presence (obviously American) triggered a conversation about the Wisconsin senator.

It is apparent that I have referred to the pro “Mc Carthy Censure” petition recently drawn by the Robin Hood Society, but do not assume that 1 am singling them (or their particular faction) out of the other pseudo-politicians here. I consider a good healthy interest in politics and government highly commendable — re gardless of the person’s age — and I feel that a good graphic example to illustrate a point is worthwhile; however, I shudder to think of the future when, perhaps. some of these people (as congressmen) might feel they must hang cans of Sano all over the capitol dome in order to show the world they are interested in doing some type of cleaning.

And, worse, al) of this foolishness and jocularity is made doubly ridiculous by the fact that, I daresay, half of the people who signed the petition were not even old enough for their voice to be officially heard by our national government. (If anyone has the statistics I’d be interested in seeing them. Actually, children, as far as the government is concerned )

I know that legislative bills are pending that say a man old enough to fight is a man old enough to vote. If they become

laws, then I am gaily looking forward to some of the 12- and 13year-old (and younger) guerilla fighters sitting around tables as legislators.

1 do not mean io offend anyone or any group. I just feel that it is time that someone pleaded for a little more decorum and dignity in our campus polities, and asked that many of these people refrain from so much passionate “ballyhoo" about matters over which they have no control, ami conserve a little of this energy until they are 21 when they can rightfully sign petitions and forcefully express their convictions in the ballot box.

A College Student

C&G editor

corrects errors

An article appeared in last week’s Maroon which gave me nervous prostration for a mildly long period. Being a conscientious soul, I worry about things. 1 would like to clear up certain things.

The tone of the yearbook will not be "conservative,” rather only the layout will have this character.

As everyone knows, photography studios do not publish yearbooks.

This task will be done by .John A Olier, an engraving company.

The book will be out by May 10. (This last mistake was on my part. Even the best of us make mistakes I’m afraid.)

Mike Kogers, editor, Cap and Gown

Editor’s note: Sorry Mike!

Delay soap, student urges

Writing as a citizen, a student, and a liberal, I should like to commend the recent activities of the Robin Hood Society in countering Mc Carthyism. The catchy buttons they wear, which read i)WJ/VC, do much Io convert the appallingly large pro-Mc Carthy segment of UC opinion, while the bars of soap which they are sending to the United States Senate will un

doubtedly do much to ensure <•♦•>sure.

In these times of ever-growing pressures toward conformity it is more than ever necessary for Communists, teachers, citizens, students, and liberals alike to band together fearlessly and wiiflout regard to consequence to promote slogans, send things to the United States Senate, and to defend the right to teach and learn.

Not intending to criticize, but rather in the spirit of helping guide such an undertaking, I should like to submit the following suggestion. While senators who have already spoken out against Mc Carthy would l>e encouraged by receiving soap as soon as possible, it would seem to me that strategy dictates that those senators who are not yet committed would do best to receive their soap, to help them tn their deliberations, on the evening immediately before the vote.

Otherwise, UC opponents of this plan, who have learned about the plan in the Maroon, might be able to write to these senators urging, them to disregard any soap they might have received. Such a letter', however, read by the senator before he received his soap, would be incomprehensible, and hence ignored.’

Peter H. Greene

Letters Welcomed

The Maroon welcomes let ters from Ma readers. Any coin mente on matters of interest to the University community are appropriate subject matter.

Letters should not exceed 260 words, ladlers exceeding this limit will be subject to editing.

The Maroon will not eon aider for publication letters which do not bear the author’s signature. However, the a Ihor's name will be withheld from publication upon request.

letters should be addressed io Editor, Chicago Maroon 6706 University Ave. 4 1 I

November 12, 1954

Humanist evolution" our destiny: Huxley

by John Munick

Julian Huxley, author and scientist, stated in an address last Friday Iha I “our age is the first one in which we have a reasonably accuiaic and a reasonably comprehensive picture of our destiny to lead the evolutionary process to new levels. Even the humblest individual, if he harmoniously develops his personality, does something significant in this process.”

Huxley appeared as the keynote speaker of the third midwest regional conference of the American Humanist association which was held at International house on November 5 and 6.

Famous for synthesizing scien What have VICEROYS got

that other

filter tip cigarettes

haven’t got ?

New

King-Size

Fillet'Tip

Ui CEROY^koy

T / C'°A,,6Tr£*

WORLD’S LARGEST-SELLING FILTER TIP CIGARETTE

^ J Only a Penny or Two Moro thon Cigarettes Without Filters

tific theories and presenting them in compact essay forms, Huxley is the author of such books as Evolution, the Modern Synthesis and Man Stands Alone. He was the first director-general of UNESCO and the chairman of the First International Congress on Humanism and Ethical Culture.

Traditional religions obsolete

Developing his thesis that “evolutionary humanism,” a process that submits the universe to explanation in natural terms alone, is the only productive approach to solving problems in our present “age of crisis,” Huxley stated that traditional religious conceptshave been made obsolete.

Huxley noted that established religions are losing their hold on the people because they are mutually exclusive, each one claiming possession of absolute truth, and because the ideas they contain no longer fit the facts.

Pseudo-religions arise

With the decline of religion there arose, according to Huxley, a crop of new religions and pseudo-religions which Huxley called “gloomy existentialism” as*represented in totalitarian nazism and Stalinism. But. Huxley added there is a better and preferable alternative made possible by the achieve NCCJ teenagers meet at Mandel

Mandel hall was filled yesterday with about 700.students from 70 high schools as the second annual tri-county high school conference on human relations met here. “Living our democracy in an age of crisis” was the conference theme. Every high school in Cook. Du Page, and Lake counties was invited to send up to eight juniors and seniors to the meeting, which was sponsored by the National Conference of Christians and Jews.

mmmi

ments of science. This alternative is “evolutionary humanism.”

Religion, he felt, is like any other human activity, a product of man’s awareness of his destiny. In the relatively unenlightened period of man’s development supernatural beings and divine intervention were the appropriate products of his limited awareness. Once these concepts were unavoidable; now they are obsolete.

Three modern revolutions

For, he continued, it is the responsibility of any religion to “build beliefs in harmony with the facts of the universe,” and three modern intellectual revolutions submit the universe to explanation in nature terms alone. Huxley briefly categorized these revolutions as the Newtonian, the Darwinian, and the humanist or pyscho-social.

The Newtonian revolution Imchemical combination. The tempo of change is slow, the amount of variety small, and the level of organization very low.

Life becomes specialised

When certain carbon compound® began to self-reproduce the organic phase was initiated. Temp# of change increased, variety increased, and the level of organization rose. Remarkably complex and specialized organ structure# evolved from the simplest microorganisms. Man developed his capacities for conceptual thought, abstractions, imagination and speech, which enable him to transmit accumulative experience.

The psycho-social phase began “when mind and its products became self-reproducing and selfvarying.” The quickness of cultural change emphasizes the “amazing juvenility of man as a

plied that the forces ens were the same earth; the laws of moved the need to divinity who moved

in the heavas those on... gravity repostulate a the planets.

Darwinism replaces creation

The Darwinian clarified reality as an irreversible process of transformation which includes man. The concept of natural selection made the process of evolution intelligible; the myth of divine creation became unnecessary.

The pyscho-social revolution applied the scientific method to the affairs of man—psychology, sociology. and anthropology developed as sciences.

Three evolutionary phases

These revolutions, Huxley continued, enable man to understand reality and thus his destiny. Huxley divided reality into three phases: the inorganic, the organic, and the pyscho-social. Each has its own method of transformation which determines its tempo and results.

The inorganic stage is characterized by pure physical interaction, energy exchanges and simple

YOU MAY NOW TELEPHONE YOUR CLASSIFIED ADS

CALL Ml 3-0080, EXT. 1009

MONDAY - WEDNESDAY: 2-5

MIRIAM S SHOPPING SERVICE For your convenience — now located at 1340 E. 55th St. Ill 3-4070

Just 2 blocks north of Steinway’s Open Mon.-Fri., 9:00-6:00 Monday and Thursday evenings till 9:00 See catalogs in SG office or drop in at our office for the latest product information.

no 7-9071 hyde park theatre

student rate 50c

lake park at 53rd

Starting Friday, November 12 — For One Week

Moira Shearer

Tales of Hoffman

Robert Helpmann, Leonide Massine, Frederick Ashton and Robert Rounseville as Hoffman the poet

Undoubtedly, the most extravagantly beautiful, dazzling, sumptuous, gorgeous, rapturously colorful, and spctacular movie you are likely to see for years to come. Ladies and gentlemen, it will knock your eyes out!

Ben Hecht's

Spectre of the Rose

A knife dances that leads to death fine dramatic acting by Judith ANDERSON, Michael CHEKHOV, and Lionel STANDER. Brilliant screenplay by ''Spellbound'' Hecht. Sample dialogue: “I'd like to pick you up right now and hold you until you were tattooed on me!"

t <•• exhibition of paintings at

Q([l Cfs [louse;

by Fred Jones

GO O D FOOD... gracious

Uf SER.v^Tro Vs' hyoepark 3-4500

5I%T^THRE£ TOfc^f^vto L^^^

biological type.” Anthropology demonstrates the amazing variety in and of different societies. Central government, specialization, and the utilization of the scientific method indicates the complexity of social organization.

Man understands his role

As a result of these developments, Huxley said, man can now see his place and .his role in nature. “His place is the summit in the process of evolution. His role is that of sole agent of the evolutionary process.” This view of man of himself and the approaches it dictates is the essence of evolutionary humanism.

Today’s knowledge requires us to think in certain terms, he asserted. We must try to unify mankind through a common political and economic outlook. But we must not create uniformity, rather “a single pattern which can hold a vast degree of diverse elements.” We should use the scientific method to fight authoritarianism and dogmatism.

Human potentiality sacred

Huxley said that “we shall be humble and we shall feel that the store of unrealized human possibilities is something sacred.” And we must try to obtain conditions necessary for the increasing realization of such possibilities by removing such obstacles as hunger, disease, and illiteracy.

We must realize the seriousness of the problem of overpopulation. For each year there are 80,000 more births than deaths. It would be wise, he said, to consolidate present schemes to help the under priveleged such as Point Four and the Colombo Plan into one

world organization in which nations can feel that they partners.

Organized action needed

We must further realize, added, that the harmonious

all

are

he development of the human personality is the greatest good in the universe. Yet the individual has no meaning apart from society. To fully utilize our present knowledge of the evolutionary process we must act as members of humanistically inclined associations.

“Then,” Huxley concluded, “all of us can feel a sense of dedication to the sacred mystery of promoting the further development of this cosmic process so as to yield a greater fulfillment of the possibilities in ourselves and our descendants.”

The College

LAUNDERETTE

1449 East 57th St. MU 4-9236

‘•Hare You Heard*’ THE PIZZA KID is on 63rd Featuring Pixxa at its Finest Bar-B-Q Back Ribs - Chicken Spaghetti - Ravioli - Mustaccoli Italian Sausage or Beef Sandwiches

Kosher

Doily: 11 Sunday: 4

DO 3-9777

Corned Beef

a.m. to 1 a.m. p.m. to 1 a.m.

Deliver”

1125 E. 63rd

i November 12, 1954

Page 6

THE CHICAGO MAROON

Ludgin new UC trustee, board of .trustees announce

Earle Ludgin, member of the class of 1920, has been elected to the board of trustees of the University of Chicago, Edward L. Ryerson, board chairman, announced yesterday.

Ludgin, president of the advertising agency of Earle Ludgin and Company, is the 15th alumni member of the board. As

chairman of the board of the

Christian Sci. topic tonight

“Christian Science and the search for cause” is the subject of a lecture to be given by Robert S. van Atta, C.S. tonight at 8 p.m. in Breasted hall, Oriental institute.

The Christian Science denomination has no ordained clergy. However, van Atta is a member of the board of lectureship of the Mother church, the First Church of Christ, Scientist, in Boston, Massachusetts.

The Christian Science organization at the University of Chicago is sponsoring this lecture to provide members of the university community with an opportunity to acquaint the teachings of the church without creeds, according to Bill Holsman of the organization.

Christian Science was founded by Mary Baker Eddy "To commemorate the word and works of our Master, which should reinstate primitive Christianity and its lost element of healing.”

Mountaineering club practice procedure, have display, lecture

Guy Everett of the Chicago Mountain club presented an illustrated lecture on the history and growth of mountaineering, at the last meeting of the UC Mountaineering club.

. The UC Mountaineering club, responsible for the recent window display in the Bookstore, is in its second year of promoting the sport of mountain climbing on campus.

Two weeks ago the club went on an excursion to Palisades State Park near Savanna, Illinois, to practice climbing and safe rope procedure on the Mississippi river bluffs. The group also practiced a 90 foot rappel ta method of roping down) from the north stands of Stagg field.

Doc film shows Russian picture

Documentary Film Group will show the final film in its War Series this evening in Social Sciences 122. It is Arsenal, a Russian film made by Dovzhenko in the late ’twenties. The entire film series was obtained from the Museum of Modern Art, New York City, which forbade admissions to single films during the series.

On Tuesday, Nov. 16, Doc Films will present an American picture, Whistle at Eaton Falls, made by the famed director, Robert Siodmak, in 1951. The film tells of labor problems in a small factory town in the East. Featured in the cast are Lillian Gish, Lloyd Bridges, and Lenore Lonergan. Admission to this event will be forty-five cents, and there will be two showings, one at 7:15 p.m., the-other at 9:30 p.m.

U. S. developing two-class system

Two class systems, one white find the other Negro, are developing in American society, stated Harold A. Miller, research assistant from the UC Center of Liberal Education for Adults, in a discussion Monday before a group of clergymen attending a course in human relations. The course is being conducted by University College in conjunction with the National Conference of Christians and Jews.

Alumni Foundation of the University of Chicago from 19521954, Ludgin almost doubled the annual alumni gift, the total last June being $400,688. He received an alumni citation from the University in 1951.

Chairman of the American association of Advertising Agencies in 1953, Ludgin is a trustee of the Art Institute, the Ravinia Festival association, the American Federation of Arts, the Poetry association, a member of the Orchestral association, and past president of the Society of Contemporary American Art.

80 student groups officially listed;

a few temporary

Eighty student organizations had registered with the office of the director of student activities by yesterday. Political organizations formed the largest single group registered. Thirteen political groups are listed. Fraternities and women’s clubs have been slow in registering, with only three fraternities and one women’s club listed.

The Undergraduate Student Education board is the only new organization registered which is expected to be permanent. Other newly listed groups, such as the Ad -Hoc committees to throw a good-by party for Ed Maupin, are of a temporary nature.

To secure recognition, an organization must complete the registration forms issued by the activities office and must have ten or more members who are students in good standing at the University.

No 'room service’ to be new policy of Reynolds club

A new Reynold’s club policy that forbids the carrying of coke bottles, dishes or trays into any of the rooms, lounges, or offices of the club, was announced by Richard W. Houck, director of the Reynolds club.

No coke bottles are to be removed from the vicinity of the coke machine in the basement, and no trays or dishes are to be removed from the cafeteria or Cshop to any other room in the building.

F. Wright to chair pediatrics discussion

Pediatrics will be the subject of an informal question and answer discussion Tuesday, under the sponsorship of the Veteran Nursery School. Dr. Francis Wright, chairman of the department of pediatrics at Bobs Roberts hospital will conduct the session. Admission to the meeting, which will be at 8 p.m. in Judd 126, is 50 cents.

you may now Telephone your Classified Ads

Ml 3-0800, Ext 1009

Mon. - Wed.: 2 - 5

^!M^^ M^O4

Friday, Nov. 12

Lecture: "Christian Science and the search for cause/' by Robert S. Van Atto, C.S., member of the Board of Lectureship of the First Church of Christ, Scientist, in Boston, Mass. 8 p.m., Breasted hall.

Program of all-French music sponsored by the Le Cercle Francois and the department of music. 4 p.m., Ido Noyes Holl library. Present will be Mrs. Edith Reiner, pianist, ond Mr. Grosvenor Cooper, chairman, deportment of music.

Hillel foundation sabbath service and fireside, 7:45 p.m., 5715 Woodlawn. At the fireside, John A. Wilson, professor at the Oriental Institute, will discuss "Religious symbols of Islam."

Lecture: "The delegates come to see us," by Wolter Johnson, chairman, department of history. 4:30 p.m., Social Science 122. Part of the Walgreen lecture series, "The Stevenson draft."

Film: "Arsenal," ( Russian ). 7:15 and 9:30 p.m., Social Science 122. Series Admission only.

Saturday, Nov. 13

Chamber recital by the UC Musical society. 8 p m., Ida Noyes library. Admission free.

Varsity cross-country meet: Washington park, 12 noon. Chicago v$. Butler University and Washington University.

Sunday, Nov. 14

University religious service. Rockefeller chapel, 1 1 a m. The Reverend Dr. Wilhelm Pauck, professor of church history, Union Theological seminary, New York, will speak on the topic, "The fulfillment of life."

SRP caucus, 7:30 p.m., Judson library. Discussion of political speakers ond concerts.

Lecture: "Conserving our neighborhood," by Charley Merriam, aiderman, fifth ward. Sponsored by the Calvert club. 4:30 p.m., De Sales House, 5735 University.

Channing club supper ond meeting, 6:30 ond 7:30 pm., Fenn House, 5638 Woodlawn. Speaker. Dr. Benjomin Richardson, minister of All Souls church, on his work at the Abraham Lincoln center and the founding of his church.

Young Socialist league meeting, 3 p.m., Ido Noyes.

Carillon recital, 4 p.m., Rockefeller Chopel. .

Monday, Nov. 15

Lecture: "A socialist looks at America," by Bert Cochran, editor of the American Socialist. 7:30 p.m., Ida Noyes.

Hug Ivri, 12:30 p.m., and Hillel Folk dance group, 3 30 p.m., Hillel Foundation, 5715 Woodlawn

Film: "The wove," (Mexican). 8 p.m., International house.

Lecture: "The draft finds a floor leader," by Walter Johnson, chairman, department of history. 4:30 pm., Social Science 122. Port of the Walgreen lecture series, "The Stevenson draft."

Lecture: "Mendes - France ond the

Classified Ads

Lost

Siamese cat. Male, black tipped ears, nose and paws. Reward. Call Bill Lloyd, PL 2-9718.

Found

Pair girl’s glasses. Peter Pflaum, FA 4-6138.

Personals

Dick Ward. The happiest man alive. Dance to his music every Wednesday night in the Maroon office. Special attention given to returning customers.

CARMEN'S Used Furniture Store Typewriters and Desks Moving ond Light Hauling

112 7 E. 5 5th MU 4-9003

Choose an Expert THOMPSON MOVERS

Local and Long Distance Moving CO 4-7600

ettcfti^ m ^m^

political crisis," by Raymond Aron, professor, Institute of Political Science, University of Paris. 8 p m., Breasted hall.

Tuesday, Nov. 16

Christian Science organization testimonial meeting, 7 p.m., Thorndike Hilton chapel.

Students for Democratic Action mect•n9i ^ p.m., Social Science 122.

UC concert band rehearsal. 8 p m., Sunny Gym, 5823 Kenwood. New members welcome.

Elementary Hebrew class, 3:30 p.m., Hillel Foundation, 5715 Woodlawn.

Film: "Whistle at Eaton Falls" (US).

7:15 ond 9:30 p.m., Social Science 122.

Lecture: "The Foreign Policy of Mendes-France," by Professor Aron. 8 p.m., Breasted hall.

William Vaughn Moody lecture: "Social Commentary in Art," by Ben Shahn, American painter. 8:30 p.m., Mandel holi.

Wednesday, Nov. 17

Carillon recital, Rockefeller chopel, 4 :30 p.m.

Snell-Hitchcock forum, 8 p.m., Hitchcock lounge. Speech: "Modern music from the viewpoint of a composer," by William Russo, composer and teacher of modern music.

Lecture ond film: "Economic development by expertise? Observations on a United Nations mission to Turkey ond Israel," by Harvey S. Perloff, director, program of education ond research in planning. 8 p.m., Social Science 201.

Intermediate Hebrew class, 1 :30 p.m., ond Hillel choral group 3:30 p.m., Hillel Foundation,

English country dancing, 8 p m., Ida Noyes Cloister club. Instructions for beginners. Wear rubber-soled shoes.

Thursday, Nov. 18

Psychology club meeting, 4:30 pm, Swift 106. Speaker to be announced.

Communication club meeting: Film of Edward R. Murrow's program, "See It Now" on Mc Carthy Panel discussion by Joseph Kamiya, psychology, Henry Sams, English, ond Charles Wegener, OMP. 7 :30 p m., Social Science 122. Admission 20c.

Talmud group, 3:30 pm., Hillel Foundation, 5715 Woodlawn.

Group study: Bible study in Mark's gospel. 7:30 p.rn., Ido Noyes. Sponsored by the Inter - Varsity Christian Fellowship.

Square dance with professional caller, 8 p m., 55th street promoting shelter home. Sponsored by the students of the downtown University college. Open only to UC college students.

University Theatre production of "The Enchanted," by Jeon Giroudoux. 8:30 p.m., Reynolds club theatre. Admission, $1.

Film: "Rhapsody in Blue" (US) 8 p.m., International House.

Lecture illustrated with color slides: "Greek and Rome from the Air," by the Rev. Raymond V. Schoder, West Baden College, 8:30 pm., Breasted hall.

Ramona: You weren’t in Classics 816 Saturday. I waited. Roger misses you. T. U.

B. V. It’s all right. All forgiven. Going to Indiana this week-end. Need companion. M. S.

“These phantoms must be considered an undesirable element.” THE ENCHANTED.

Mid-November here; Dragon here also. J. B.

For Rent

3 room apartment. Will either rent out or share with woman. Phone Ml 3-0800, Ext. 2527. Miss Sherman.

Desirable room. For particulars telephone FA 4-3216.

Newly decorated 2 and Pi room furnished apartment. Reasonable rent. 6107 Dorchester, PL 2-9641. Avon apartments.

PHOTOGRAPHERS

MIDWAY 3-4433

Smith speaks on demagogues twice

Lillian Smith, noted writer and lecturer, will deliver a series of two talks on Demagoguery, next week at Roosevelt University. Miss Smith, a native of the South, and author of Strange Fruit, The Journey, Killers of the Dream, and many other provocative novels, will speak Tuesday evening, Nov. 16, on Demagoguery — a World-Wide Problem, and again Thursday evening, Nov. 18, on Demagoguery — The Need for a World-Wide Solution. Both lectures will begin at 8:30 p.m. and there will be an admission charge of $1.00 for each lecture.

Calvert sponsors Aid. Merriam

Aiderman Robert Merriam will speak on campus Sunday at 4:30, under the auspices of the Calvert club. Merriam will speak on “Conserving our neighborhood,” in the fourth lecture of the club’s fall series.

Merriam is the cjty council representative from the local fifth ward. Merriam’s views on the conservation question include t h e words, “It just doesn’t make sense for us to spend almost $200 million a square mile to clear and redevelop slums when for a fraction of that amount in public and private money we can save and improve these good neighborhoods which could become slums.”

Adult Education conference theme

A conference of the Adult Education association was held in Chicago in the Morrison hotel from November 7 through November 10. The theme of the conference was “Adult education for a free society.”

In addition to five general sessions, common interest and special interest group meetings were held. The general sessions featured panel discussions and an address by Henry Steele Comma ger.

University of Chicago participants in the conference included Maurice Donohue, dean of the University College; Kermit Eby, professor of social sciences; Frederick Harbison, of the industrial relations center; Robert Havighurst, professor of education; S. I. Hayakawa, semanticist; and Harold Urey, professor of chemistry.

Local sponsors of the conference were the Illinois Adult Education association and the Adult Education Council of Greater Chicago.

Wanted

Employed girl will exchange baby-sitting, light duties for board and room. Anne Holden, CE 6-7080, 9 a.m.-5 p.m

Male graduate student wishes ride to Dallas, Texas, during Christmas recess. Call CO 4-5740 late evenings.

For Sole

College girl’s formals, dresses, size 10, sweaters, shoes 7AA. 1221 E. Hyde Park boulevard, FA 4-6283.

Living room furniture, dining room, bedroom set, miscellaneous knickknacks. 1221 E. Hyde Park boulevard, FA 4-6283.

Tuxedo for sale, size 38. Telephone FA 4-3216.

Rolleiflex 3.8 Zeiss Tessar, $25 Including case filters. Flashgun, $7. Tom Mausolif. 1231 East 58th street, BU 8-5525.

Services

Rewriting thesis or otherwise, satisfaction guaranteed. Low rates. Box 101 Mother of 3-year-old would like to babysit in her own home for mother working days. Mrs. R. Allen, 6036 Dorchester.

1171 EAST 55th STREET Hovember 12, 1954

Parties elect new officers at caucuses

ISL elects Metros president; discuss committee work of SG

SRP chooses Lichtenstein Jan Metros (college) was unanimously elected president of the Independent Students league (ISL), the majority party in Student Government, at the caucus Sunday. Other officers

elected were: vice-president, Howard Turner; secretary, Alice Bloom; and treasurer, Rosemary Galli.

Miss Metros is currently chairman of the NSA committee of Student Government and a delegate to the National Student association. She served last year as publicity chairman of SG and was a member of the Student Union board.

The caucus discussed the work of the various committees of student Government with special emphasis on student needs and publicity. SG President Al Fortier outlined the work of SG for the immediate future, which includes the establishment of a studentoperated non-discriminatory housing file, a vacation travel discount service, and an SG newsletter.

Advertisement — Advertisement — Advertisement — Advertisement

On Campus Max Shulman

(Author of “Barefoot Boy With Cheek” etc.)

DECEMBER AND MAY: ACT I

Of all the creatures that inhabit the earth, none is so fair, so warm, so toothsome, as a coed.

This is a simple fact, well-known to every campus male, and, to most campus males, a source of rejoicing. But not to all. To some, the creamy brows and twinkling limbs of coeds are a bane and a burden. To whom? To professors, that’s whom.

Professors, according to latest scientific advice, are human. Stick them and they bleed, pinch them and they hurt, ring a dinner bell and they salivate, comfront them with a round young coed and their ears go back, even as yours and mine.

But, by and large, they contain themselves. After all, they are men of high principle and decorum, and besides, the board of regents has got stooiies all over. So, by and large, they contain themselves.

But not always. Every now and then a coed will come along who is just too gorgeous to resist, and a professor — his clutch worn out from years of struggle — will slip and fall. White though his hair, multitudinous though his degrees, Phi Beta Kappa though his key, he is as lovesick, moonstruck, and impaled as any freshman.

But he’s far worse off than any freshman. After all, a freshman can thump his leg, put on his linen duster, and take out after the coed with mad abandon. But what can the poor smitten prof do? How, in his position, can he go courting a young girl undergraduate?

In this column and the next one, I am going to deal with this difficult question. I will relate to you, in the form of a two act play, an account of a professor’s attempt to woo a coed.

The scene is a typical office in a typical liberal arts building on a typical campus. In this shabby setting, we find two men, Professors Twonkey and Phipps. They are lumpy and bent, in the manner of English lit professors.

Phipps: Twonkey, a terrible thing has happened to me. A terrible, ghastly thing! I’ve fallen in love with a coed.

Twonkey: Now, now, that’s not so terrible.

Phipps: Oh, but it is. Miss Mc Fetridge —for that is her name —is a student, a girl of nineteen. How would her parents feel if they knew I was gawking at her and refusing my food and writing her name on frosty windowpanes with my fingernail?

Twonkey: Come now, Phipps, no need to carry on so. You’re not the first teacher to cast warm eyes at a coed, you know.

Phipps: You mean it’s happened to you too?

Twonkey: But of course. Many times..

Phipps: What did you do about it?

Twonkey : Looked at their knees. It never fails, Phipps. No matter how pretty a girl is, her knees are bound to be knobby and bony and the least romantic of objects.

Phipps: Not Miss Mc Fetridge’s—for that is her name. They are soft and round and dimpled. Also pink.

Twonkey: Really? Well, I’ll tell you something, Phipps. If I ever found a girl with pink knees, I’d marry her.

Phipps: It is my fondest wish, but how can I, a professor of fifty, start a courtship with a girl of 19?

Twonkey: Very simple. Ask her to come to your office for a conference late tomorrow afternoon. When she arrives, be urbane, be charming. Ask her to sit down. Give her a cigarette.

Phipps: A Philip Morris.

Twonkey: But of course.

Phipps: I just wanted to be sure you mentioned the name. They’re paying for this column.

Twonkey: Give her a Philip Morris. .

Phipps: That’s right.

Twonkey: Then light her Philip Morris and light one yourself. Say some frightfully witty things about English lit. Be gay. Be insouciant. Keep her laughing for an hour or so. Then look at your watch. Cry out in surprise that you had no idea it was this late. Insist on driving her home.

Phipps: Yes,yes?

Twonkey: On the way home, drive past that movie house that shows French films. Stop your car, as though on a sudden impulse. Tell her that you’ve heard the movie was delightfully Gallic and naughty. Ask her if she’d like to see it

Phipps: Yes, yes?

Twonkey: After the movie, say to her in a jocular, offhand way that after such a fine French movie, the only logical thing would be a fine French dinner. Take her to a funny little place you know, with candles and checked tablecloths. Ply her with burgundy and Philip Morris. Be witty. Be gay. Be Gallic How can a nineteenyear old girl resist such blandishments?

Phipps: Twonkey, you’re a genius! This will be like shooting fish in a barrel... But I wonder if it isn’t taking unfair advantage of the poor little innocent.

Twonkey: Nonsense, Phipps. All’s fair in love and war.

Phipps: You’re right, by George. I’ll do it!

(So ends Act I. Next week, Act II)

©Max Shulman. 1954

This column is brought to you by the makers of PHILIP MORRIS who think you viould enjoy their cigarette.

formulate plans for activities

The Student Representative party (SRP) elected the following new officers at a caucus recently: chairman, Lawrence Lichtenstein; vice-chairman, Janice Porter; secretary, Don Anderson; treasurer, Robert Stein.

Plans were formulated for an extensive program of campus activities, including the formation of cooperative projects for

book-buying and eating, a lecture program on the arts in American society, a discussion of the recent Congressional elections by liberal leaders and unionists, and a series of cultural events.

Elected to committee chairmanships were: Milt Kotler, student needs; Roy Huddleson and John Gilmore, communications; Matthew Prastein, co-operative projects; Paul Breslow and Vera John, speakers; and Karl Rodman, cultural.

A spokesman for SRP stated, "The recent campus elections, while greatly decreasing the role SRP may play in Student Government’s endless discussions, permits us to function as something other than a competing campus party. SRP intends to participate actively in the cultural, social and political program of the campus and, we hope, to contribute a great deal to the solution of students’ economic problems.”

Economic growth of near east Perloff’s theme

The possibility of economic development by expertise and the contribution that the western "expert” can bring to the development of the Near East will be the themes of a talk by Harvey Perloff at 8 p.m. Wednesday in Social Science 201.

The talk, sponsored by the Planning club, will be preceded by a short film, "Turkey, Gateway to the Middle East,” dealing with Turkey’s current problems and the changes brought about by the political and social revolution under Kemal Ataturk.

Director of the UC program for education and research in planning, Dr. Perloff has recently returned from a United Nations mission to Turkey and Israel WUCB

640 KC

Monday, November 15

9:30 o.m.—WEFM re-broadcost

7 :30 p.m.—evening preview

7 :40 p.m.—early evening news

7:45 p.m.—Guest Star: Bob Crosby

8:00 p.m.—World of Music (classical)

Is co-existence possible? Johnson, Finer disagree

Views of contrasting optimism and pessimism over the possibility of co-existence between Soviet Russia and the Western powers were expressed Tuesday evening by professors Walter Johnson, chairman of the UC history department, and Herman Finer of the political science department.

Finer and Johnson spoke at the Sinai temple forum on the

subject of “Malenkov’s Russia: world conquest or co-existence?” The discussion was organized as a tri partite discussion between Finer, Johnson, and the audience.

Analyzing US post-war policy concerning the oppressed areas in Europe, Finer praised it for its effectiveness. The policy of modified militarism which the US followed was particularly efficient in saving Greece from Communist domination, he stated.

Finer concluded that because of the previous success of this approach, the creation of a new European union, and the rise of a new intelligentsia in Russia since Stalin’s death, "there is a glimmer of possibility of prolonged coexistence of nations.”

Discussing relations between the US and the eastern parts of the world, Johnson stressed the fact that Communist propaganda in the East is much more effective than ours because of the Communist promises of bringing food to the peoples of Asia.

Johnson stated hat to combat

this the US must embark on a large program of aid to far-eastern peoples.

Young Dems organize, elect

Conflict arising from recent elections of the Young Democrats club was resolved this week and elected officers were announced as Eli Stein, president; Emil Johnson, first vice-president; William Seltzer, second vice-president; and Margaret Anderson, secretary. The election has been challenged by a group of members who did not attend, but they failed to effect any changes.

Future plans of the group inelude increasing membership from its present total of 20, possibly sponsoring speakers, and supporting Democratic candidates. "The club was very inactive last year due to inept leadership,” said Stein, “But we hope to change this situation.”

! UNIVERSITY FOODS 1129 E. 55th

NSA discount on $3.00 purchases

ACASA Book Store

CHRISTMAS CARDS

CONTEMPORARY IMPORTED

CONVENTIONAL FOREIGN LANGUAGE

Featuring one of the largest and most distinctive collections of 5c cards in the city

IIY 3-9651

1117 E. 55th Street

ALEXANDER’S RESTAURANT

1137 E

63rd St

ME 4-5735

COMPLETE COMPLETE COMPLETE

DINNERS .. LUNCHEONS BREAKFASTS

.from 95c

.from 75c

.from 38c

9:00 p.m.—Vox Pornossi (poetry readings)

9:35 p.m.-midnight—WEFM rebroadcast

Tuesday, November 16 9:30 a.m.—WEFM re-broadcost 7:30 p.m.—evening preview 7 :40 p.m.—early evening news 7:45 p.m.—Music Mort (popular) 8:00 p.m.—Das Deutscher program 8:30 p.m.—Student Forum of the

9:00 p.m.—late evening news 9:05 p m—Bedtime Story 9:30 p.m.-midnight—WEFM rebroadcast

Wednesday, November 17 9:30a.m.—WEFM re-broadcast 6:30 p.m.—Hartigan at Random (popular music) 7:30 p.m.—evening preview 7:40 p.m.—Midway Microphone (interviews)

8:00 p.m.—French language program

8:45 p m.—Forward March 9:00 p.m.—late evening news 9:05 p.m.-midnight—WEFM rebroadcost

Thursday, November 18 9:30 o.m.—WEFM re-broodcost 7:30 p.m.—evening preview 7:40 p.m.—early evening news 7 :45 p.m.—United Nations report 8:00 p.m.—La Hora Espanola 8:30 p m.—Masterworks from France

9:00 p.m.—Cloud 640

1 1 .00 p.m.—late evening news

1 1 :05 p m.-midnight—WEFM rebroadcast

Friday, November 19

9

7

7

30 a m.—WEFM re-broadcast

30 p m.—evening preview

40 p.m.—early evening news

45 p.m.—Your Novy show: Ray Anthony

8:00 p.m.—Musical Masterpieces 1 classical)

9:00 p m.—late evening news

9:05 p.m.-midnight—WEFM rebroadcast

SAVE TIME — SAVE MONEY

N & R Bonded Movers^

New ond Used Furniture Ml 3 4196 1510 E. 55th

I The year’s funniest film!

— Lit* Magoxine Midwest Premiere

Students presenting their ID cards at box office will be admitted for 50c any week night, Saturdays and Sundays until 5 p.m.

JACQUES TATI, comic virtuoso. skips with a Chop* linesque manner through

Today at 6:30. 8:’O, 10:1 D(AMOU* A) DIVISION?

&

t II

.1

t

if THE CHICAGO MAROON

November 12, 1954

Latest Review now on sale Lulled by Schumann

The fall issue of the Chicago Review, on sale Monday, devotes more space than any previous issue to the publication of student material.

Leading the fiction section of the Review will be Phil Roth’s “The Day It Snowed,” the story of a small child’s fatal discovery of the meaning of death. Roth’s work appears in company with student Anthony M. Trozzolo’s translation of “The Oil” by Italian author G. A. Birgese; "The Devil Below Stairs,” a suspense story by Barbara Howes; and “The Tour This sketch by student Harry Adler appears in the new ( hicago Review.

Ing poet Bernard Smilowitz and the editors of Time, the Review’, and the Saturday Review of Literature. In the correspondences, Smilowitz. who once recited his poetry to the acclaim of a Miami night-club audience, crys out to the great, silent American public to listen to his poems.

The student book review's in the forthcoming Review are M. J. Phillips’ review' of Elder Olson’s The Poetry of Dylan Thomas, Sydney Hart h’s review of European Literature and the Latin Middle Ages and Mark Nugent’s commentary on a new series of paper-bound science books.

The rapid rate of increase in circulation during the past three years has provided student writers with increased opportunity to be published and read on a

national level and has produced many formally unrealized benefits for its contributors, according to the Review editors. Under the present Review format student works may now appear side by side w'ith works of such notables as Tennessee Wilbams, David Riesman. William Carlos Williams. Marianne Moore, and Paul Klee.

Six of last year’s student contributors have been given professional contracts as a direct result of appearing in the Chicago Review, and eleven student contributors of the last two years have obtained similar advantages.

“As the campus and national sales of the Review increase,” stated the Review editors, “the space for publication of student material vfill also be increased.”

finds concert uneven

The towering posters spawned around campus announcing Grant Johannesen as a great piano virtuoso prepared the audience more for the Brahms Paganini Variations or the Liszt Sonata than a recital of Mozart, Schumann and Debussy.

However, parts of last Friday’s concert showed some piano playing at its best. Particularly the Faure Theme et Variations, Opus 73 and the Impromptu No. 5, two fresh and original works by this neglected composer, and Debussy’s La Soiree dans Grenade showed a sensitivity and fluid technique such as are heard from few pianists.

Tocatta unsuited to piano

The Bach Tocatta, however, seemed very unsuited to the piano; Schumann’s Six Intermezzi, Opus 4 were well played, but very uniform in form and textuxe, and

nament,” Jascha Kessler’s story with a sports background.

In addition to Borgese, other “big names” appearing in the forthcoming Review are those of Kenneth Burke. Elder Olson, and Charles G. Bell. Olson, one of the Chicago critics, is featured with an examination of the works of two modern poetesses, Leonie Adams and Louise Bogan. Burke’s inquiry into “The Language of Poetry, Dramatistically Considered.” appears in two installments in the Review.

Among the eleven authors in the Review’s poetry section are Charles G. Bell, a faculty member, who has contributed two poems. “The Blue-Hole” and “The Flood,” and student poets Barbara Gabor, Beth Fawks, and Paul Carroll.

A satirical highlight in the new Review is a heartbreaking set of correspondence between struggl UT to produce Enchanted; tireless efforts bearing.fruit

For the past three w eeks in University Theatre’s Reynolds club studio a small group of technicians has been collaborating to produce a phantom. With UTs arena-style production of Giraudoux’s The Enchanted less than a week from its opening night, their tireless efforts are finally bearing fruit.

“It’s not as though theatrical ghosts were a new or even

Film to be shown by camera club

unusual phenomenon,” explained Meyer Bratierman, UT technical director. “But this one must seem properly detached and ethereal to an audience watching him from all sides and sometimes as little as two feet away. To achieve this our lighting and technical effects must be, in the best sense of the word, fantastic.”

Giraudoux wrote The Enchanted (then called Intermezzo) for the great Louis Jouvet, who produced and starred in it in 1933. This production, using the original Francis Poulenc score also used by UT, was an immediate success with Parisian audiences and critics alike. Giraudoux was hailed as the pioneer of a new genre

of theatrical fantasy, a position he later consolidated with Amphitrion 38 and The Madwoman of Chaillot.

Although American critics were slow in taking to him. American audiences showed themselves much less adverse to the theatrically new: virtually all Giraudoux plays produced in this country were box-office successes. Many of his works have now attained the status of classics.

The Enchanted will go on the boards for seven performances, beginning next Thursday. The dates are November 18, 19. 20. 21, 26. 27. and 28. Tickets are on sale in the Reynolds club.

Neva Fowler who is to appear in Giraudoux’s The Enchanted.

soon became soporific. Debussy’s LTsk Joyeuse, unlike its predecessor, was dashed off at breakneck speed, without much expres. sion.

Unfortunately the only chailenging piece on the program. Mozart’s beautiful Sonata in a Minor, K.310, fared no better. The formidable difficulties in performing Mozart are more than romantic delusions; he must be played with the utmost sensitivity and good taste, and at the same time with enough technical proficiency to conceal all difficulties.

Performance too fast

All of the performance seemed too fast, particularly the last movement, which, presto or no presto, demands much more expression than technical competence. The first movement, also, is certainly more than a virtuoso piece, even if it consists mostly of sixteenth notes.

J o h a n nese n’s perform a n ee, while not strictly a misinterpretation. simply neglected all but the superficial aspects of what is one of Mozart's finest keyboard works.

Tn general, one must say that Johannesen is a fine pianist, but he certainly does not always perform up to his capacities.

Robert Bloch

The David Bradley production of Julius Caesar, one of the first 16-mm. feature films to play in regular theatrical engagement, will be shown Saturday. November 20, at 8 p.m. in Soc. Sci. 122. admission 55 cents. There will be no advance sale of tickets.

Julius Caesar was produced by unknowns for only $15,000. and created a sensation in New York by running a month when only two weeks had been planned. It was filmed in the Chicago area by students from Northwestern University and some little known radio actors.

The film is being presented by the UC Camera club. The program also includes a British color short, “Trouping the Colour.”

Charlton Heston is featured as Marc Antony in the Bradley production, which is the first fulllength sound movie version of the Shakespeare classic. Costumes and armor were homemade, and such landmarks as Rosenwald museum and Soldier field are used for the Roman settings.

new and different stag or drag 7^ St^ ^ewhw Dancing and Entertainment Tonight

Music by Eddie Fox The Little Foxes and Featured Vocalist

from 9:00 P.M. Admission $1.00 plus tax and that's all

The Elms Hotel East 53rd Street and Cornell Avenue

 

:

Playwrights Theatre Club 1205 N. Dearborn

Held over 1 week "a fine show Sydney Harris — News CHEKHOV'S Dramatic Comedy Sunday at 7:30 Lllv Tuesday thru Sat ITALIAN FIESTA PIZZERIA sea gull

8:30

memberships or reservations available

at

Student Government

Ticket Agency

or call WHitehall 3 2272 (closes Sunday, Nov. 21 )

Opening Wed., Nov. 24th The East Indian Romance Shakuntala

India's great playwright

KALI DASA Large $2 Special Pizza ’A Sausage !4 Anchovy 14 Pepper 1A Mushroom

1427 E. 67th MU 4 S!

TABLE SERVICE

1 1

FREE DELIVERY TO U. of C. STUDENTS On orders over $2

Quick Courteous Service 7 Days a Week DELIVERY SERVICE

4

4 ◄
◄

<

I Hevemkev 12, 1954

THE CHICAGO MAROON

Revival of interest in Chekhov has been noticed

two of his works currently presented in Chicago

Two works of Chekhov are currently being presented in Chicago. Playwrights Theatre Chib is performing The Seagull, Chekhov’s first mature tragedy through next Tuesday evening. The Anna Cross, a well known story depicting the caprices of a girl who has newly discovered her beauty, will be at th< Cinema Annex through next Thursday. Both events are reviewed elsewhere on this page.

At this time an assessment of the works of Chekhov (1860-1905), or a rapturous eulogy (which he himself detested (would gain nothing; perhaps the most worthwhile thing to do would be to express appreciation for the writer, and to explain why this appreciation.

From his earliest days, Chekhov’s most prominent characteristic was his reaction against, and extreme aversion for, the banality, pettiness and complete preoccupation with trivia that surrounded him. He detested this anil ridiculed it in his early stories such as “The Death of an Official,” “The Fat and Lean,” “Chame Icon,” and “Under Officer Priehlbeyev.”

Gorky speaks of this trait in his reminiscences: “His enemy was banality; he fought it all his life long; he ridiculed it, drawing it with a pointed and unimpassioned pen and banality revenged itself upon him by a nasty prank,

Playwrights' Seagull absorbing; wonderfully moving work of art

In one of its finest performances to date, Playwrights Theatre presents in Chekhov’s The Seagull what is also one of the most absorbing plays it has performed. Set in a pre-revolutionary Russian country estate, the play describes less of a plot than the effects of a social situation on a more or less representative group of people.

Like Uncle Vanya, it might also be termed “scenes from country life.” Yet the entire work is executed with such disarming naturalism and warm human compassion that, far from being merely a sociological study, it is a wonderfully moving work of art.

The social situation itself is never described very explicitly. Chekhov did not have the analy tical flair of Shaw, who imitated him in Heartbreak House; the situation is felt much more than explained.

Characters confused

Not one of the characters understands it, nor indeed can anyone except perhaps Trigorin, the established but dissatisfied writer, see beyond himself and his*own futile efforts. They into an existence of resignation anti mild cynicism, like Dr. Dorn

either settle *9*1 SCHNEEMANN’S

Red Door Book Shop

1328 East 57th Street NOrmal 7 6111

if you have a book problem:

—you want to buy: If we haven't got it, we'll order

it — 24 hour service whenever possible.

—you want to sell: We give good prices for good ] books.

—you want to present: We prettily gift-wrap; we mail free in the U.S.

—you want to inquire: We II tell you what we know or can find out about any book available.

^Book-Cellar to the Valrernity Cotatnaait^

for It saw that his corpse, the corpse of a poet, was put into a railway truck 'for the conveyance of oysters’.”

At the same time that he exposed it, Chekhov “had the art of revealing everywhere and driving away banality, an art which is only possible to a man who demands much from life and which comes from a keen desire to see men simple, beautiful, harmonious.”

What most persons sought from romantic escapes, and

and State Councilor Sorin, a retired landowner; find relief in egoistic triumphs in the city, like Irina Nikolaevna, an actress growing old in spite of herself; or, they are caught in the middle.

Her son, Kostya, has an urge to create, and attempts to write, but finds himself in a vacuum. He loves a girl, Nina, but she becomes infatuated with the famous Trigorin and throws herself into a futile career on the stage.

Trigorin has social awareness

The only person with any social awareness is Trigorin, who laments his inability to depict anything about the world around him

from elaborate pretenses, Chekhov found in daily heroism, moral strength, and the important, meaningful everyday experiences. In short, Chekov discovered the extraordinary in the inconspicuous ordinary.

This positive desire and delicate sensitivity caused Chekhov to embark on a search; a search which encompassed the whole of his art for the entirety of his existence. His search was for an understanding of why such miserable people and conventions exexcept miniatures and landscapes. It is going too fast, and he is “like a peasant who has missed his train.”

The plight of all these people is described mostly in a series of tableaux, describing a charming, restful but essentially useless atmosphere. Like Sorin, each person seems to be “lying around like a A united cigarette holder.” There is an implied contrast with the city, where one can lose oneself in various diversions. However, this type of life is useless and insincere.

General unity excellent

The tableaux, blocking, and general unity of Playwrights’ production were excellent, and Donna Holabird gave an outstanding performance of Irina Nicolaevna. Nearly all the other performances were good, except that of Nina, which lacked the necessary nenetration for the final scene, and Masha, who was somewhat too flighty and hysterical for the role, which is sober almost to the point of being sordid. The pace was especially good, being just slow enough to give the necessary mood of the play.

Frank Ternenyi Robert Bloch

 Order corsages from your campus florist ?

Mitzie 9s Flower Shop |

at two convenient stores $

1225 F. 63rd St. 1301 E. 55th St. |

HY 3-5353 Ml 3-4020 |

t*% uud >•% atwdem diwmmi X

 

INTERNATIONAL HOUSE AUTUMN FORMAL THE HOMECOMING DANCE

Saturday, Novambar 13 9:30 P.M. - f A.M.

Mimic by EDDIE JAMES JUmieeteu $1.25 . • . Setreshma Ms

isted. His search was for a logical structure within which his reactions could take form.

Chekov progressed and developed his art by stages. He discovered that his world was a prison. His first three plays (“Fatherless” — 1880, ‘On the High Road”—1885, “Ivanov”— 1887) deal with protagonists who through various developments conclude that society is hopelessly corrupt, filicide or death or complete resignation are the solutions.

In his story of the horrors of life in a mental hospital, “Ward No. 8,” Chekhov creates the picture of a huge prison in which Russia is chained in despair, because of the self-contented and soothing philosophies of the Russian liberals.

From this point Chekhov adopts the approach that, in the words of a character of Gorky, “Man is the truth All is in Man, all is for Man! Man is born to conceive a better man!” In The Seagull, the wronged girl, Nina, sees that “the chief thing is the capacity for taking pains to bear one’s cross and have faith.”

In the last years of his life, Chekhov became aware of a new possible future, of the transformation and liberation of Russian society. Thus “The Cherry Orchard,” in the person

Annex shows ’Anna/ film of Chekhov story

A film adaptation of Anton Chekhov’s short story. "The Anna Cross” (Anna on His Neck), is currently running at the Cinema Annex theater, and is scheduled to continue through next Thursday.

One can imagine the story to have been jotted down in

Chekhov’s notebook. Perhaps with the Anna Cross and a living Anna both hanging on his neck — and combined it. with

the notion of a pretty girl who marries a fairly wealthy boor in order to assist her hungry family, impresses the higher eschelons of her society, and forgets not only her borish husband but her needy father as well. The motif is purely and simply ingratitude.

Since the characters are partof the Student Trofimov, proph* wies: “The human race progresses, perfecting its powers. Everything that is unattainable now will some day be near and intelligible. But we must work. We must help with all our energy those who seek to know the truth.”

What heightens the significance of Chekhov’s works, and clearly elucidates his conception of the surrounding world, is the conciseness and compactness of his writing. This conciseness is due to his understanding of the essence of each dramatic situation, and to his rejection of the sentimental, explosive emotionalism popular in the drama of his time and the theatrical effects inseparable from this emotionalism.

What must be said now is that the appreciation of Chekhov is created by his sincere, determined efforts to discover life. This is a quality which must be cherished and necessarily verbalized again and again.

The fruits of Chekhov’s search are contributions which have meaning for us all. They possess such value because the search of the genius. Chekhov, was carried to its needed and enlightening conclusion. Far too few artists follow this pursuit, undaunted and persistent.

Joel Pkheny

he heard a joke about a man

ly stereotypes, the task of making them believable is a formidable one. It is accomplished with the aid of superb acting, lavish sets, troikas in the snow and grand aristocratic dances, and particularly beautiful color photography. Thus the character is often depicted as much by his surroundings as his dialog. (Even Laughton could learn how a boor should eat chicken.)

Music is in keeping with that of the period depicted. Whether this is intentional or due to conservatism is not determinable. In any case it is unobtrusive.

The reviewer’s overall impression is that a typical Chekhov short story has been faithfully and colorfully transferred to the cinematic medium; a thoroughly respectable accomplishment.

On the same bill is a documentary about the painter Serov, one of the 19th century nationalist school. He was a first-rate painter and his canvases are well filmed*

Suzanne Friedmann

1309 E. 57th St.

Record of the week Leodbelly sings sinfvl songs Allegro LP-4027 $1.75 Fa 10

THi CHICAGO MAROON

November 12, 1954

Halfbacks Pete Rosen (striped-shirt, on left) and Dick Hansen (on right) watch fullback Alex Shane (back to camera) move in to keep Indiana scoreless last Sunday on Stagg. The Maroons won, 2 0.

Stars shine in IM swimming;

Coulter and Phi Gams win

The intramural swim meet held Tuesday turned out to be a star-filled contest.

Bill Whitney and Maury Mandel dominated the college

house events, each man winning

two. But Coulter pulled enough filler, AKK, and Paul Orsay, Psi

_ j j j U, won the two remaining events,

seconds and thirds to more than 

make up for Whitney of Hitchcock and Mandel of Vincent to Win the college house meet.

The Phi Gams swamped all opposition in the fraternity section of the meet winning both relays and two individual events, plus several seconds and thirds. Dick

College house swimming:

Coulter 36

Vincent 27’4

Matthews 21

Hitchcock 18%

Linn 3

Fraternities:

Phi Gamma Delta 69%

Alpha Kappa Kappa 9%

Psi Upsilon 9

Zeta Beta Tau 3

Alpha Delta Phi 0 New “Silvered-Tlp" writes 2 ; the way you do . . fine, .medium or broad .T. with, tout changing points. Ro* [fills available In blue, red, green orblack Ink. Get a Paper-Mate Pen todays

• Sankars approve

• Ink can’t anted? er transfer

• Can’t leak

unsno

MMt M

Silvered-TIp refills • •. 494

Booters split two

Beating Indiana by 2-0 one day after losing to Wheaton by an identical 2-0 score, the Maroon soccer team salvaged its .500 standing in Midwest conference play Sunday on Stagg field.

The Maroons gained a 2 won2 lost record by missing and getting the “breaks” on successive days.

Wheaton gets breaks

On Saturday the breaks went to Wheaton. After 44 minutes of scoreless soccer in the first half, Wheaton’s crusaders pushed close to the Chicago goal in the first minutes of the second half, and were awarded a free kick from near the northeast corner following a Maroon boot out of bounds there. The kick-in, by fullback Elden Whipple, arched toward the goal. Chicago fullback Alex Shane and Wheaton center forward Dave Carder both headed the ball enough to make it bounce straight up and land at their feet, where Wheaton leftwing Mike Hernans tapped it in.

Chicago can’t capitalize

The second Crusader goal also resulted from a free kick. This one was indirect like the other,

but came from only fourteen yards out. Hernans, taking the kick, passed gently to rightwing Paul Clark who kicked hard into the upper righthand corner of the goal, past goalkeeper Gerry Czmanske.

Chicago was unable to capitalize on any of its scoring opportunities against Wheaton Saturday. But on Sunday all the breaks came to Chicago.

Goalie Czmanske made over a dozen difficult saves against Indiana’s onslaughts. One in particular was brilliant, Czamanske holding a ball on the ground while an Indiana forward attempted to kick it through his hands.

Contest Godfrey’s goal

And Chicago's scoring was equally well omened. Iran's Roojan Minasaganian, playing centerforward, scored the girst goal in the first quarter on a straight shot from about ten yards out. John Godfrey kicked a contested second goal in the final quarter. His goal should actually be credited to the Indiana goalie who touched Godfrey’s indirect free kick from the sideline and then allowed it to roll into the goal.

One game to go

The Indiana coach, who had leapt from the bench Durocherstyle earlier in the game over one of the referee’s decisions, contested the goal on the grounds that his goalie did not touch the ball. Minutes later he had cause to leap from the bench again when his left halfback was thrown out of the game for contesting another call by the referee. After a minute’s argument play continued without incident and without further score.

One Midwest conference game remains for the Maroons. Tomorrow they play Morton Junior cob lege away, closing the season. Other league games between Wheaton and Earlham today and between Wheaton and Indiana tomorrow will decide final conference standings.

Coach Joe Stamps’ J-V basketball team dropped two games yesterday to St. Gregory, 43-40, and 83-42. stamps divided his squad into two teams in order to give all his men an opportunity to play before regular private-school league games begin.

Score by Quarters Final St. Greg. 16 5 10 12—43

U-High 4 11 12 13—40

HALF DOLLAR JOINING MARCH OF DIMIS Garth Saager, Western Illinois State College

Limt BOY TAKING DATS FOR ISCALATOR RIDS Elaine Mae Rubinstein Brooklyn College

A FOOR BUTTIRFLY Julie Hammond Michigan State Normal College

St Greg. 18 20 24 21—83

U-High 8 8 16 10—42

ANT COMPLITING KOMI RUN

—TIAMMATIS WAITING TO CONGRATULATI HIM

Max Crohn University of North Carolina

What makes a Lucky taste better?

APACHt HOUSING DEVELOPMENT

James D. Merritt University of New Hampshire

TOASTED”

to taste better!

What cigarette do college students go for? According to the latest, biggest coast-tocoast survey, students prefer Luckies to all other brands. And once again, the No. 1 reason is better taste. Of course Luckies taste better. First of all, Lucky Strike means fine tobacco. Then, that tobacco is toasted to taste better. “I£s Toas^’—the famous Lucky Strike process—tones up Luckies’ light, mild, good-tasting tobacco to make it taste even better. Try a pack. Maybe you’ll be as fortunate as the student in the Droodle to the right, titled: Lucky smoker • • . faulty cigarette vending machine. Even if you’re not, you’ll enjoy the better-tasting cigarette... Lucky Strike.

BOY FLYING KITt PROM UPSTAIRS WINDOW Vernon W. Swenson Kansas State College

WHAT’S THIS?” a,k> ROGER PRICE*

For solution 8CC paragraph at left

wimi

Lucky Droodles are pouring in! Where are yours? We pay $25 for all we use, and for many we don’t use. So, send every original Droodle in your noodle, with its descriptive title, to Lucky Droodle, P. O. Box 67, New York 46, N.Y.

•DROODLES, Copyright, 1954, by Roger Price

O C? M-^^

EARN $25!

LUCKIES TASH BETTER Cleaner, Fre.her, Smarter!

•AI.Cb

AMBBICA’0 LBADINQ MANVPACTVBBR DP Cl QARBYt B# November 12, 1954

Page 11

THE CHICAGO MAROON

Three Big Seven schools

ambushed by UC runners

by Paul Baptist

Chicago’s harriers ventured Into the hunting grounds of Big Seven colleges last Saturday at Ames, Iowa, and emerged with the scalps of Iowa State, Kansas State, and Nebraska dangling from their belts.

Kansas State fell by a 17-20 score, and Iowa State and Nebraska were massacred by identical 16-21 scores.

The Maroons’ Walt Deike put the final real Indian sign on the three schools. He finished

first against all three (all teams ran at once, but scoring was on a dual meet basis), and broke his second course record in as many weeks, turning 15:38 over an ambush-ridden three miles. Paul Baptist’s 16:27 won him fourth place. And when Art 'Laughing Boy’’ Omohundro, Lowell “Deer Foot” Hawkinson, and Jim “Mighty Warrior” Flynn sped across the finish line in 11, 13. and 14 places respectively, the

victory was clinched for Chicago.

Shock Iowa squaws

Ted Fishman and Tinkie Heyns both ran excellent races for the Maroons, but only five of the seven man traveling squad could be designated for scoring purposes.

High point of the meet from the Chicago point of view was the s t of stunned, incredulous looks on the Iowa squaws and children after the results of the race were announced.

Compete today

At 11:30 this morning six runners will compete in the Central Collegiate meet in Washington Park against Drake, Wheaton. Notre Dame, Marquette, and oilier big schools. The six that are eligible are Baptist, Omohundro, Flynn, Fishman, John Smothers, and an Trifone.

On Saturday the harriers will try to notch their seventh dual victory in eight starts at the expense of Washington University of St. Louis. The full team will be off and running tomorrow at J1:30 in Washington park.

the happiest music alive DIM) Featuring the DIXIE DUKES

Every Friday & Saturday night

Open till 4 & 5 A.M.

Free Parking across the street

AVALON COCKTAIL LOUNGE (FORMERLY

THE ST. MORITZ)

1629 E. 79 St.

RE 4-8729 Sports Briefs Big Ten cross country.

49er practice, on today

SPORTS CALENDAR

Today: Cross country, Central Collegiate, 1 1 :30 a.m., Washington park

Tomorrow: Soccer, Morton Jr. College, 11 a.m. Cicero

Cross country, Washington U., 1 1 :30 a.m., Washington park

Wednesday: Cross country, Bradley, 3:30 p.m., Peoria

Fate of prefabs uncertain; administration comments

(from page 1) by the government agreement, Strozier said.

Veterans have priority in all housing, as do families with children, Mrs. Mc Carn said. “We try to weigh all of the human factors concerned,” she added.

ing. 140 applications for people now in the prefabs for other housing, 46 divinity school applications for housing, and 76 applications for pre-fab housing, Patricia Williams, administrative secretary of the housing bureau, reported.

Three hundred forty-one units are included in the prefabs and barracks. Other University housing for married students, not to be torn down, total 80 units, plus some units in a recently acquired building which is being filled with students as vacancies occur. Of these, 28 units are for divinity school students, as are the units in the new building.

252 waiting

The University now has 252 applications for housing by people not now in University hous W. R. Zellner, superintendent of Buildings and Grounds, reported that the contracts have not been let for tearing down the buildings. “Everything that’s been wrecked so far, we’ve handled,” he said. “We usually have two or three months notice.”

“Every foot of land is requested for use,” Strozier said. Some of the land will revert to tennis courts, and playing courts as they were before 1947. The land near the hospital might be used for parking.

TYPEWRITERS

REASONABLE PRICES FOR

NEW AND RECONDITIONED MACHINES

EXPERT REPAIR AND OVERHAUL SERVICE

TALK OVER YOUR TYPWRITER PROBLEM WITH RUDY GERSON AT

University of Chicago

Bookstore

5802 Ellis Avenue

.' Louise Barker photographer *‘who captures your personality as well as your person”

1457 E. 57th St. BU 8-0876

Eye Examinations Visual Training

Dr. Kurt Rosenbaum

optometrist

1132 E. 55th Street HYde Park 3-8372

'Afi

Early risers today have their choice of two athletic spectacles. The San Francisco 49’ers practice on Stagg between 9 a.m. and noon today. Y. A. Tittle and company continue on Stagg Saturday in preparation for Sunday’s game with the Packers at Green Bay, and then return for practice sessions from Tuesday through Saturday.

Where Jay Berwanger once played before packed stands the San Francisco 49’ers now practice in solitude: Stagg field hosts the professional team for seven practice sessions in the next nine days.

The other spectacle takes place in Washington park at 11 a m. when the Big Ten cross-country championship is rup. About fifty runners will start a four mile trek over a figure-8-shaped course at that hour. Iowa’s Rich Ferguson, who placed third to Bannister and Landy in the empire games in August, is defending champion.

Shower singing: harsh sound

Although locker rooms are traditionally the sites^of halftime peptalks and after game post-mortems, the lockers in Bartlett basement echoed with stranger sounds Tuesday. An enthusiastic intramural swimmer began singing a sentimental ballad while he showered, antagonizing a half dozen cross country runners who prefer hearing Mario Lanza on records. They began mimicking his mimicking, and soon the locker room was full of harsh sounds and strident noises. On Wednesday and Thursday there was no singing in the showers.

IDA Noyes hosts modern dance

Ida Noyes hosts a modern dance master lesson by Louise Kloepper tomorrow at 2 p.m. Miss Kloepper. a former soloist with the Hanya Holm dance company, will teach both members and non members of the Chicago Dance council who come dressed to participate. Registration. at a half hour earlier that afternoon, will cost $2.50 for non-members, $1.50 for members, $1.00 for student non-members, and 50 cents for student members.

WAAs hockey team breaks even

The Women’s Athletic association hockey team split two games over the weekend, imitating the varsity soccer team. They defeated De Kalb Teachers, 3-1, in a morning game, and then lost, 1-0, in the afternoon. Good weather made a marked contrast to the snow and sleet of previous WAA contests.

Folk Schools of Scandinavia offer one year of liberal arts

Opportunity for a year of study in the liberal arts at the Folk Schools of Scandinavia is being offered UC students by the Council for Adult Education.

“The Folk Schools have an average enrollment of 50 to' 70 students and are ideal for discussion and seminar methods of teaching,” stated Molly Day, the Council’s field representative. Miss Day will visit campus tomorrow from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. to discuss this program with Interested students in the conference room in 201 Administration building.

Full tuition and living expenses for a nine-month period of study at the Folk Schools will be covered by a charge of $800. Study

\

COMO

PIZZERIA

1520 E. 55th St.

• Bar-be-cue chicken

• Bar-be-cue ribs

Delivery Anywhere

FA 4-5525

may be conducted at one or more of the 200 Folk Schools. Housing will be provided by Swedish families. Prior knowledge of a Scandinavian language is not required of students entering the program.

“The Folk Schools are more concerned with intellectually stimulating the student than with dogmatically teaching,” said Miss Day. "The Folk Schools produced much of the social thought which initiated the social-welfare movement in Danish government,” she added.

The program is open to students on graduate or high undergraduate levels.

Gordon's Sport Shop

Tennis Balls, $6.00 a dozen Badminton and Squash 5757 Cottage Grove

MODEL CAMERA SHOP 5th Anniversary

Register tor $555.00 in Free Prizes MODEL TRAINS - PLANES PHOTO SUPPLIES NSA Discounts

1329 E. 55th St. HY 3-9259

BETZ JEWELRY Unusual Jewelry Our Specialty Expert Jewelry and Watch Repair N.S.A. Discount to Students

1523 E. 53rd PL 2-3038 Page 12

THE CHICAGO MAROON

November 12, 1954

Peter Swing conducts Glee Club.

Maroon sketches

Swing injects Harvard

touch into UC Qlee club

“It is one of my ambitions to make our Glee Club just as vital an organization as Harvard’s,” said Peter Gram Swing, the director of the University Glee club.

Swing is the second UC Glee club director who has also belonged to the Harvard Glee club. The first was Chris Moore, the UC group’s founder, who, like Swing, “was inspired by the high ideals of the Harvard club.”

When Swing came to UC, he brought with him a store of musical experience which began in his childhood as a member of a family trio. He received both his AB and MA at Harvard, graduating with honors in mifsic, and is a candidate for a doctorate at UC. He also studied at the Longy School in Cambridge and plays several instruments.

Under a Fulbright grant, Swing did research in 16th century music in the Netherlands with one of the world's leading musicologists. Albert A. Smijers. While there he also lectured on American music and gal group of sicians.

Swing taught

formed a madriprofessional muand conducted at

Rollins College in Florida, where he once conducted 1500 people in an annual Christmas sing. Swing has started a number of singing groups in Cambridge, the Netherlands and Florida.

He was with the Harvard Glee club eight years, conducted a Harvard-Radcliffe chorus, sang with Bob Shaw’s special chorus, and studied choral conducting with Shaw.

“Clubs healthy”

Swing is now teaching humanities I, and lives nearby with his wife and baby daughter. Besides directing the UC Glee club, he is also choirmaster of the Chicago Theological seminary group.

It is Swing’s firm belief that “a healthy glee club is one of the signs of a healthy university Any university without a student singing group,” he has said, “is ailing.” He has great hopes for University Glee club, and says he “sees no reason why it cannot be in a few years an organization of from 100 to 200 strong.

“It takes years to build a tradition,” he said, “but I am glad to be in on the ground floor of one I am surprised and delighted that there is a job here for me to do; i.e., to help make a tradition instead of inheriting one.”

* Co-existence theme of Marzani talk

Tickets are on sale at the student ticket service in the Reynolds club for a lecture by Carl Marzani, author of We Can Be Friends, on “Coexistence,” tomorrow right. The program, sponsored by the Chicago Council of American Soviet Friendship, will include the Chicago premiere of two new documentary films on the Soviet Union. They are The Pamirs and The Altai.

The program will be held tomorrow at Milda hall, 3140 S. Hal, sted, starting at 8:15 p.m. Admission is $1.

oc. Sci. building

The Social Sciences building is become the latest subject the “bright colors” fad. Hower, the color scheme of Swift ill, a striking juxtaposition of d, orange, chartreuse, and grey, is not been repeated in Soc Sci. The interior of the Soc buildg now sports a less devastating •st floor of yellow, second floor light and dark turquoise, third >or of lavender, and fourth floor dark grey.

More buildings are to be painted similar manners.

'oet plays joke n Review staff

An acrostic cleverly concealed in one of the poems in the forthcoming Chicago Review was discovered Wednesday by student Robert Johnson in an advance copy of the new Review, F. N. Karmatz. editor of the Review reported.

Contacting the Review editors, Johnson said that “the acrostic I discovered is a legend of such licentious perversion as to make the ‘Harvard baccalaureate hymn’ of 1926, a similar acrostic work, a nursery rhyme by comparison.

The poet’s joke on the Review was not discovered until after the entire press had been run.

.’S MIRACLE

No filter compares with

TIP

Filmdom’s Diana Lynn: "I think the Miracle Tip is the most modern filter ... and La M the best-tasting filter cigarette.”

David Wayne, Stage a Screen: "La Ms have the best filter of them all. Miracle Tip is right! There's nothing like it.”

US6e TT MYERS TOBACCO

Isn’t it time you tried the cigarette that is sweeping the country... breaking record after record ... winning more smokers in less time than any cigarette ever did!

Why such success for L&M? It’s the filter that counts, and

L&M has the best. You get much more flavor, much less nicotine ... a light and mild smoke... because only L&M’s Miracle Tip gives you the effective filtration you need.

Enjoy L&M’s king size or regular... both at the same low price. Like thousands, you’ll say—"They're just what the doctor ordered.”

More Flavor __

Less Nicotine

SG revises minimum grade

 

An amendment to the SG election law was passed at Tuesday’s SG meeting which clarifies the determination of eligibility of candidates and makes the rule somewhat more stringent.

The new rule provides that the necessary “C” average for candidates may be computed either on the basis of all grades received or grades received in the previous three quarters only, whichever are the higher. It was passed without opposition.

Plans for publication of the Student Directory were announced. The Directory will be published the first week in Decem Want to join

O-board?

Applications now accepted

Orientation board is now accepting applications for membership, which will be acted on during the winter quarter.

Applications are available

at the Reynolds club desk, Burton-Judson office, C-group office, and the Administration building information desk. They must be returned by December 5 to either Reynolds club desk; Earl Medlinsky, Vincent house; or Janice Hubka, Green hall.

All college students who will

Mrs. Laddie Sanford, Socialite Sportswoman: "I love La Ms. Wonderful filter — exceptional taste!”

for Quality or Effectiveness

ber, and will cost 35 cents.

The student - faculty relations committee announced its plans to re-establish the educational survey commission.

Richard Ward, chairman of the yc delegation to the National Student association, reported on the delegation’s activities at the NSA convention last summer. Appointments were made to the selection committee for the Frankfort exchange program.

still be in the college next year (i.e. who will not have an AB or SB* are eligible for membership. The main requirement is an interest in O-board’s activities both during Orientation week and in orienting students to the college during the remainder of the year, or any similar projects the board may undertake.

are tie*