SU to publish newspaper; “Forcast” to appear at Prom

A new weekly UC newspaper will appear on campus Monday, Feb. 20, according to spokesmen for Student Union. The aim of the paper, which-is named the “Student Union Forcast,” will be to inform the student body of coming social, cultural, and recreational events and to promote such events.

The circulation of Forcast is to be about 3,000. It will be distributed free on campus every week, probably on Monday. Advance copies of the first

issue will be given out at the Wash Prom breakfast the morning after the Wash Prom (February 21).

Forcast will print advances of events sponsored by campus groups. It will also print reviews of these events. According to SU spokesmen, the paper will not cover other types of news and is not intended to be in competition with the MAROON.

The paper intends to support itself by the sale of advertising.

Forcast will be planographed,

University of Chicago, February 12, 1954

t* i’pjjjy cojt^Cp ^ 1

SC to revise Mich plan

In a stormy and invective-filled session the Student Government voted last Tuesday night to revise the Michigan Plan, and to extend the recognition of the Phi Delta fraternity until November 1, 1954. Also, under the new statute, the fraternity may enforce its discriminatory statute as late as November 1956.

The resolution was passed over the opposition of most of the members of the Student Representative

Party who were present. Twice during the meeting, Matthew Prastein (SRP-Phy Sci), charging that the assembly’s actions showed “incompetence,” called for the dissolution of the Student assembly.

The meeting concluded when all but one member of SRP walked out of the assembly. This action was to protest a ruling by Clive Gray, SG president. The ruling called out of order a motion, by Frank Kirk (SRP-Soc Sci), to reconsider the action taken on the Michigan Plan. Gray’s ruling*was called an insult and a denial of Kirk’s legitimate rights by members of SRP.

Stein introduced bill

The motion to revise the Michigan Plan was introduced by Eli Stein, Chairman of the Committee on Recognized Student Organizations (CORSO). The effect of the Stein Act will be to grant the Phi Delta Theta fraternity recognition until the next national convention of the fraternity.

If the September national convention of Phi Delta Theta, does not rescind the “white aryan” clause, the UC chapter must renounce the clause to remain a

Members of SRP and supporters leaving SG meeting last Tuesday night in a protest demonstration. Members of the minority party were protesting ruling of the chair. Reading from left to right: Ann Holcombe, Lyn Burns, Frank Kirk, Michael Kaufman, Michael Girsdansky, Mathew Prastein, Paul Breslow and Robert Floyd.

and will consist of four 8% by 11’,2 pages.

Stating that the MAROON does not devote enough space to UC’s social program, Forcast spokesmen said “ Furthermore—and this is the major problem—we want social ballyhoo — publicity and promotion—as well as communication. This would call for a writing style drastically opposed to the MAROON’s. It would mean, for instance, that we would want honest reviews rather than the MAROON’s pseudo - inte 11 e c t u a 1 panning parties ...”'-'

recognized student organization, according to the new SG plan.

If the national fraternity does attain the necessary three-fourths vote to revoke the discriminatory clause, a second national consecutive convention must take similar action before the fraternity can be revised. The SG plan will allow the UC chapter to enforce Us clause for two succeeding years until the 1956 convention, if the 1954 convention votes against discrimination.

Stein emphasized in his arguments for the bill that Robert M. Strozier, dean of students, had definitely indicated his approval of such action. Stein also stated that he believed the University could not possibly “back - track” from Strozier’s position.

Actually last Tuesday’s bill had been formulated in discussions between Strozier and Corso. Strozier’s position of support was formally indicated to Stein in a letter, dated January 25, 1954.

Matthew Prastein called the Stein Bill a “dishonest stand.” He inferred that Student Government was afraid to take any action which would displease Phi Delta Theta.

'US policy in Asia timid'

“American foreign policy in Asia lacks courage and imagination,” was the statement of former US ambassador to India, Chester Bowles, speaking in Mandel Hall last Monday. He continued, “we’ve got to come to grips with Asia, and do it soon. The important decisions of the next 10 or 20 years will be made in the capitals of the East.”

Bowles said he felt that the Dulles foreign policy hadn’t substantially changed anything as far as Europe was concerned; it still posed the threat of atomic retaliation as the answer to Communist aggression. But in Asia, “atomic bombs don’t

knock out industry, they simply kill people, millions of them. I don’t think we can form foreign policy in Asia on this basis.”

“Military power alone can’t bring peace,” he went on. “We can’t afford to be weak, but we can’t afford to accept military strengths as a foreign policy, either. Military power just gives us the chance to solve, but does not solve our problem.”

Bowles described what ne called Russia’s “new look” in Eastern foreign policy: her increasing appeal to trade and development of a “Russian Point Four” in wooing the underdeveloped and uncom Paul Breslow (Soc Sci), floor leader of the SRP. then read a list of citations where actions had been enforced at ten other universities and colleges against discriminatory fraternity clauses. The material was taken from a publication of the Educational Affairs Commission of the US National Student Association.

Kirk motion defeated

After the revision of the Michigan Plan had been voted a preamble to the act, introduced by Frank Kirk, was considered and defeated. This preamble. Kirk explained, was meant to explain the action of ,the assembly, but would have no legislative force, as such.

The preamble stated that the Student Assembly believed “the University community would be best served by immediate enforcement of the Michigan Plan.” However, it further stated that since enforcement of the Michigan Plan was contingent upon University’ approval, the assembly could onlytake action which the administration would enforce.

Explain enforcement

Immediate enforcement of the Michigan Plan would mean the immediate derecognition of Phi Delta Theta.

There was strong opposition to the preamble. Marlin Smith (ISLLaw) stated that “we should not admit to campus” that the assembly had the weaknesses explicitly stated in the preamble.

Counters trend, Jimmy's offers free coffee, tea

The price of coffee may be rising, but at Jimmy’s, a popular student hangout, free coffee and tea will be served, beginning tonight, during the final hour before closing. Jim Wilson, owner of the pub, feels that safety and conviviality will be served if patrons “make the one for the road coffee or tea on the house.”

Jimmy's, located at 1172 55th Street, is open until 3 on Saturday nights, and 2 during the rest of the week.

East a.m. a.m.

mitted areas of Asia. He urged that America ask questions like, “Does this policy add to the selfrespect and independence of the countries to be helped?” instead of wasting so much time discovering who likes the United States and who does not. He asserted that some of those countries that seem to oppose us in the UN, like Burma, would be the fiercest fighters against the Reds because they have convictions to defend. “We want their success, after all, not their gratitude,” he added.

Served 19 months

Turning to India, where he served 19 months as US ambassador, Bowles described the “epic contest” in progress between the world’s two largest countries. China has issued a challenge, he said: the Voice of Peiping has asked India to match the output of a China aided by the technical and financial assistance of Russia. Nehru, “who refused a dictatorship handed him on a silver platter,” must consider all the added problems of democracy in facing the challenge. The people of India have voted him five years to carry out his plan—five years that they felt they owed him for the years he spent in prison on their behalf, Bowles continued.

Breslow opposed the resolution, in the belief that such action would be hypocritical. It was his contention that many assembly members had voted for the revision because they wanted no change in Phi Delta Theta’s status. Chairman upheld

Following the discussion on the preamble, Kirk introduced his motion to reconsider the revision. A lengthy discussion of parliamentary order followed. After thirtyminutes, the chairman was upheld in his decision to not recognize Kirk.

At this point the SRP members of the assembly left the session. This action left the assembly without a quorum, so no further business was taken up. The next SG meeting will be on Feb. 23.

‘Playboy’ to open next week;

Holland to star in Synge play

Next weekend University Theatre presents its forty-seventh major production, The Playboy of the Western World, by John Millington Synge. The play will be presented Friday and Sunday evenings and in a Saturday matinee at Mandel Hall.

The Playboy cast will be headed by James Holland as the playboy and Carol Horning as Pegeen Mike. Holland, a University art department student and part-time instructor at the University College, is perhaps UT’s most experienced member, listing appearances from as early as 1948, when he took part in The Alchemist. His most recent appearance was as Azdak, the wi.’ey judge in Brecht’s Chalk Circle of last season. Carol Horning is a relative newcomer but has won roles in several recent productions both on campus and off. Barry Sherman, who plays her fiance, Shawn Keogh, and Leon Wanerman, the “old man Mahon” of this production, were both introduced to UT audiences in Carnival of Thieves last quarter.

Few recent dramas have had such a vigorous stage history as Playboy. Synge’s anti - idealistic view of his Irish neighbors was the cause of riots at the play's

He explained that if Nehru’s plan is successfully completed in 1956 it will make India independent of imported food supply, raise food production 19 per cent, wipe out the malaria which strikes 100 million people annually and build dams and wells to irrigate a land area equal to that of South Carolina. In addition, the “village program” will advance sanitation, agriculture and education all over India. India carries 98 per cent of the cost burden.

Bowles saw this plan as an effort to bring about what Arnold Toynbee has called the greatest realization of our age—that it is no longer inevitable that man face poverty.

Talk taped

In a brief interview before taping a talk with Walter Johnson, chairman of the history department, and Theodore Schultze, economics department chairman, for this Sunday’s UC Roundtable, Bowles compared the inherent desire for democracy among Indians with the conditioned responsiveness of the Chinese to a totalitarian government.

Gives text of Strozier letter

The following is the pertinent text of Dean Robert Strozier’s letter to Eli Stein, Chairman of CORSO:

“The Administration suggests to CORSO for its meeting on January 26 the following solution to the problem: that recognition be granted Beta of Phi Delta Theta until November 1, 1954; that if the national convention of the Phi Delta Theta Fraternity at its September 1954 meeting does not attain the three-fourths majority required for the elimination of the selectivity clause, the local chapter be required to renounce publicly its adherence to this clause, as the chapters at Amherst and Williams have already done.

It would be my understanding that, if a recommendation from the CORSO were approved by the Student Government in line with this suggestion from the Administration, Beta of Phi Delta Theta would, before November 1, 1954, provide the Dean of Students with either the confirmation of the satisfactory vote in the national convention or signify in writing its own renunciation of the selectivity clause, at that time and thereafter. If neither of these is attained then the chapter would not be permitted to seek recognition on the campus.”

Dublin premiere and the same strife marred its first American presentation in Boston. The Irish players were jailed in Philadelphia. The play’s fierce reality and strange Irish poetry have only slowly won acceptance. Today the drama has become a permanent part of the Abbey Theatre’s repertory and traveling troupes have carried it to all parts of the world.

Tickets for all performances are on sale now at the Reynolds Club desk.

Give exchange benefit

Special tickets for Hie performance on Friday, Feb. 19, are being sold for the benefit of Hie Frankfurt - Chicago student exchange program. They may be purchased for $1 at the SG office, 302 Reynolds Club, or from SG members. Page 2

THE CHICAGO MAROON

February 12, 1954

Erickson presents report; observes youth's problems

“Adolescence is a crisis, but not a misfortune,” Erik H. Erickson, authority on child psychiatry and psychoanalysis, concluded in his his paper, “Identity and Totality: Psychoanalytic Observations on Problems of Youth.” He presented his report at the Fifth Annual Human Development Symposium, held in International House last Saturday.

Erickson described “identity formation” as a lifelong process of self-definition, beginning in childhood and culminating in a “full identity crisis” when the adolescent is forced

Rago will leave College; contract expires this year

Henry Rago, assistant professor of Humanities in the College, will leave the University at the end of this year, it was announced recently. Rago made the following statement to the MAROON.

“The rumors that I am leaving the University are true. My

to make important irreversible decisions.

The 19- or 20-year-old must make an occupational choice which will immediately place him in competition with others at the same time that he is faced with making an emotional commitment. In order to make these choices, he must have some type of “psycho-social moratorium,” a time in which he may experiment with different identities, play with dangerous commitments,

Midwest poets will compete

A new poetry competition

and

award for Midwestern poets, under the joint sponsorship of Poetry magazine, University College, and the Beloit Poetry Journal, was announced recently. Titled the “Annual Award for New Poets of the Midwest,” the competition will feature as its first award a public reading of nis own works by the winning poet, publication in Poetry and the Beloit Poetry Journal, and a cash prize of $100. The reading will take place May 21 as part of a series of poetry readings being presented this year by University College.

The competition is open to any poet whose work has not been published in book form and who is a resident of Ohio, Michigan, Indiana, Illinois, Wisconsin, Minnesota, Iowa, or Missouri.

Manuscripts submitted for judging may not exceed 20 doublespaced or ten single-spaced pages in length. They shoula be submitted, accompanied by a self-addressed stamped envelope, to New Poets of the Midwest Award, University of Chicago, 19 South Laand thus, discover himself and the world in which he must live.

Show creates own moratorium

Using George Bernard Shaw as an example, Erickson showed how an individual may create his own moratorium if the society does not offer him one. When the adolescent Shaw found himself becoming a successful busiinessman, he left his job, his friends, and his country to spend five years in complete seclusion, during which he wrote five pages a day until he had written five novels which were not published until a few years before his death. At the end of these five years, he emerged from this seclusion, having decided that he was “at home with the immortal dead.” Erickson considered this decision as a realization of his identity, marking the end of his five-year selfimposed moratorium.

Erickson’s own work at the Austin Riggs Center has been concerned with’ adolescents who cannot make use of the institutipnal moratorium offered by society, or create one of their own, as Shaw did. They are forced to turn to psychiatrists, judges, priests, or recruiting sergeants in an effort to overcome their “pathological moratorium,” the wellknown adolescent breakdown. This breakdown is equivalent to acute identity diffusion, which is usually characterized by loss of time perspective, over-consciousness of identity, work paralysis,

and confusion of sexual identity.

May deny usual identity

If the adolescent does not succeed in forming a position identity, he may decide to ‘fail well,” by adopting a negative, one, a complete denial of the identity set up for him by his childhood environment or his society.

Erickson concluded his paper by stressing the necessity of providing a moratorium and of allowing adolescents to make full use of it. "They must take a chance with difficult situations that look dangerous to us, but it would be better to encourage them to dare than to warn them prematurely,” he stated.

Davis, Piers discuss report

The two discussants of Erickson’s report were Allison Davis, professor of education, and Dr. Gerhard Piers of the Institute of Psychoanalysis. Davis discussed the identity formation problems of the American middle class adolescents, arising from their need to avoid maturity in economic and sexual roles in order to prepare for their future occupational role.

Piers showed that the problem of identity formation had been neglected by psychoanalyists because the conditions in Europe, where the science originated, reduced the tensions which cause the “full identity crisis” described by Erickson, and, therefore, reduced the importance of the problem E Extra Dividend Declared E

E • Daily 6-7 P.M. at the i

contract expires at the end of this academic year, and by statute I must leave unless

appointed to permanent rank. This appointment the University is unable to make because of the limited number of such positions now available. The entire circumstance is attended by nothing but good will and good faith on all sides. We are simply up against an impersonal situation

that can’t be helped.

strongly, that a statement is necessary. The Administration, as a matter of courtesy, has left the responsibility to me.

“I have no plans to announce. Teaching at Chicago has been such a nourishment and delight and excitement that for the moment it’s almost impossible to im Salle street, line for the 1, 1954.

Judges in

Chicago 3, Ill. Deadcompetition is April

the competition will

be Robert Glauber, editor of the Beloit Poetry Journal; Galway Kinnell, director of the Liberal Arts program of University College; Karl Shapiro, editor of Poetry magazine; and Samuel Yellen, editor of the Indiana university poetry series.

Eye Examinations Visual Training

Dr. Kurt Rosenbaum

optometrist

1132 E. 55th Street

HYde Park 3-8372

COMO

PIZZERIA

1520E. 55th St.

• *Bar-be-cue chicken

• Bar-be-cue ribs

Delivery Anywhere

FA 4-5525

“I’m sorry that I have had to refuse to comment the several times the MAROON has asked me about all this. I thought that any public statement might presume more interest thaft the facts warrant; and in any case, because of my complete confidence in the Administration, I wanted to leave any such statement to the Chancellor or to the Dean of the College. It now appears to me, quite

• agine myself teaching anywhere

else.’

V GO

? WITH

and MEET THE PEOPLE or

Hawaii

|4tti ANNUAL GIRL’S STUDY TOUR

:on<iucted. $495

STOP TOURS, Berkeley, Calif.

You can send flowers any old time Give a book to your Valentine!

(And our apologies to Ogden Nash)

LOVE POEMS & LETTERS FOR ALL THE YEAR. $1.00

A fervent note, a gallant verse, Price that fits the slimmest purse.

VENUS IN THE KITCHEN by Pilaff Bey (Norman Douglas) 

Book makes claims for aphrodisia. Unconfirmed; but the food will pleasia.

PERIOD PIECE by Gwen 

Victorian sentiment by Darwin's descendiment.

$3.75

$3.75

We have II. Allen Smith on the Practical Joke, Dne J. Thurber on an assortment of folk;

Benton and Gibran, if your heart's trouble's serious,

R. Price's DROODLES, if it's delirious. GAMEMANSHIP, LIFEMANSHIP, HOPALONG FREUD, Nonsense and novels, all by the score, We've run out of rhymes — come into the store.

UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO BOOK STORE

Ml 3-0524

1131 - 33 E. 55th

Chicago 37, Illinois

5802 Ellis Avenue

 

Look! all the colors

Wi^

pions. Winners on two counts

style and com Once again. Arrow sports shirts have beat out all competition and won the title of campus cham Arrow Sports Shirts Hailed Inter-Collegiate Champs!

and patterns you want in Arrow Sports Shirts

We have the right Arrow sports shirt for every pair of slacks in your wardchecks

robe, smart colors need. Stop

Come, take your pick of our selection — checks, plaids, solid in every fabric and color you And they're all WASHABLE, in today and see how

Arrows con spark your loaf life.

plaids

iolids

fort

these champion sports shirts are now

available at all Arrow dealers.

$coo lip

.Chicago - Evonsfon - Oak Park - Gary - Joliet - Alton

ARROW TRADE ® MARK

SHIRTS * TIES * UNDERWEAR HANDKERCHIEFS * SPORTSWEAR February 12, 1954

THE CHICAGO MAROON

Page 3

Robert E. Merriam, fif'd ward aiderman, will speak on "Politics and Chicago's City Government" at an open meeting on Thursday at 8 p.m. in Social Sciences 122.

Forum sponsors music comment by jazz writer

The Snell-Hitchcock forum will present Bill Russo, a young American composer, speaking on “Problems Involved in the Creation, Interpretation, and Presentation of Experimental Modern Music” in the Hitchock lounge next Wednesday at 8 p.m.

Records, many of which are unavailable transcriptions, will illusoirate the discussion.

Russo has written most of the concert library for Stan Kenton. As backgrounds for drama and modern dance, his scores have been used by television and other modes of presentation.

Eby to reveal 'most important belief' to Porter

Professor Kermit Eby of the industrial relations department will speak at the meeting of the Porter Foundation on “This I Hold to Be Most Important.” The discussion will take place at International House in Room A at 7:30 on Sunday.

Eby, who has always played an important role in his church community, is also interested in labor problems in the United States. He held the post of director of education and research of the Congress of Industrial Organizations from 1945 to 1948.

In line with his religious interest, Eby has just written a book, entitled, The God in You.”

RECORDS

10" LP... 79c

12" LP. .. 98c & $1.89 45 RPM.y/i price

Hermans 935 E. 55th St. Open Thurs., Til 9

Dance to the Music of Dick Gerwin and His Band

SATURDAY, FEB. 13 INTERNATIONAL HOUSE

8-12 P.M. Admission $1.00

S. HUROK presents

BROADWAY'S HIT DANCES

COMEDY! SONGS! BALLETS!

"AN INTIMATE REVUE. AUDIENCES ARE WELL ENTERTAINEDI" -Tim. Mogazin. SPECIAL STUDENT RATE: Sunday Matinee Only, Feb. 21

Regular price Student rate (for Sun. mat.) 4.20 3.00

3.60 3.40 '

3.00 1.80

1.80 .00

Tickets available at Reynolds Club Desk

Opera House — Feb. 19, 20, 21 (mat. Sunday)

Currently nine LP albums containing his compositions are on sale, and a tenth- “Stan Kenton Presents the Compositions of Bill Russo” is now in preparation. Russo is at present writing a ballet.

Debate winners offered free trip to Madison campus

Winners in a campus-wide contest to choose a two-man UC debate team will receive an all-expense paid trip to the University of Wisconsin for the Western Conference Debate League gathering April 8-10. Students interested in competing for team positions should fill out application blanks at the Reynolds’ Club desk.

Applicants should be prepared to argue either side of the question. “Resolved: Indian Neutrality Is Necessary for an Understanding Between East and West.” This was also the topic of a debate against two Indian students who are on an Institute of International Education sponsored tour of the U.S., which will be held in Soc. Sci. 122, April 1. Entrance for team positions may be by individuals or groups, although the judging will be on an individual basis.

Full agenda for Wash Prom weekend

to include game, parties, performances

Several open houses, a basketball game, a breakfast in Hutchinson Commons following the Washington Promenade, and other events, were announced by the committee in charge as the final schedule for the Wash Prom Weekend, extending from February 19-21.

The Wash Prom weekend will officially begin with a basketball game between UC and Elmhurst on Friday night, February 19. Acrotheatre will provide the “Wash Prom weekend touch” in the form of half-time entertainment with other special entertainment provided by the Pep Club.

The House Decoration contest, in which all dormitories and fraternity houses may compete, will have its judging on Monday afternoon, February 15. Mrs. Alma Mullin, assistant director of student activities, Harold Haydon, associate professor of art, and Robert L. Mc Caul, assistant to the dean of students in the college, will comprise the judging committee. The contest winner will be awarded a winner's trophy, which tor the past two years has been held by Zeta Beta Tau fraternity.

On Saturday, February 20, University Theatre is offering a matinee performance of Playboy of the Western World at a special price of $1.25 for all holders of Wash Prom bids. This performance will be held in the Reynolds Club at 2:30 p.m.

Colonial ballroom planned

The Prom itself, to be held in Bartlett Gymnasium from 9-1 on February 20, is offering Woody Herman and his Third Herd for dancing. Red, white, and blue bunting, and a chandelier of gold stars reflecting five different colors, will transform the Bartlett

Club tea marks 60th anniversary

Inter-Club Council is sponsoring a tea to be held at the Kimpton home in celebration of the 60th anniversary of the founding of clubs on campus. The event, which begins the winter quarter rushing, takes place next Tuesday at 3:30 p.m.

Club members, rushees, alumnae, faculty members, and wives of members of the faculty and the administration will receive invitations.

Those who wish to rush may contact Betty Fer rar, Green house.

for discriminating Valentines it's

Rosemary ZWICK distinctive hand-made jewelry at

Bordelon Designs 1424 E. 55th and

University Bookstore

5802 Ellis

HARRY A. ZISOOK & SONS University District Renting Office

MAYFLOWER HOTEL 6125 KENWOOD AVENUE

Let us help you

GET OUT OF THE ROOMING HOUSES AND SUBSTANDARD BUILDINGS IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD For the convenience and accomodation of the Students. Faculty and Employees of the University we have opened a University District Renting Office to serve you in obtaining better housing.

Come in and let us know what your requirements are so that we may assist you.

AVAILABLE NOW AND/OR MARCH 1st

Hotel rooms with private bath and shower Sgl.—$8 per wk.; dbl.—$12 per wk.

Hotel apts. with switchboard and maid service

1 rm. apt. at $90 per mo.

2 rm. apt. at $107.50 per mo.

off we hours 9 a.m. to 5 p.m Monday thru Friday THERE IS NO CHARGE FOR THIS SERVICE

main office

HARRY A. ZISOOK & SONS

Real Estate

100 W. MONROE ST. RAndolph 6-9250

Serving Chicago since 1907

Ballroom into a replica of a Southern ballroom of the Colomal period. Murals of George Washington will, of course, be a part of the decoration plans.

The highlight of the Prom will be the crowning of Miss UC at midnight by Woody Herman. The queen, chosen by a campus election, will have as members of her court, the four remaining finalists from the queen contest.

To serve breakfast

Preceding and following the ball, open houses will be held at Hitchcock and Burton - Judson Courts. The committee has arranged for a buffet breakfast to

be served in Hutchinson Commons following the Prom, from 1-3 a.m. Tickets for the breakfast are $2.00 per couple, and should be purchased with the Prom tickets.

Sunday religious services are planned as usual for Rockefeller Chapel at 11 a.m. A performance of the Agnes De Mille dance troupe at the Civic Opera House on Sunday afternoon will complete the week end’s round of activities. The Dance Theatre, a revue of comedy, songs, and ballet, will offer the Sunday matinee at reduced prices. Tickets may be purchased at the Student Government ticket agency.

Margaret Mead discusses cultural changes of Manus

Research in the changes that take place in I culture during one generation, was the purpose of the second visit to New Guinea that Dr. Margaret Mead made last year, 25 years after her original trip. She brought back not only facts about the changes which occurred among the Manus, a New Guinea tribe she studied, but also some conclusions about the progress in the methods of study of culture and personality that have evolved in the last quarter century.

Though she has not yet published the details of her trip, Dr. Mead in a stop at the University last Wednesday, gave an informal introduction to some aspects of her findings.

Identification helps rapport

Dr. Mead discussed the feeling of stronger identification that an anthropologist experiences with certain tribes more than with others. This feeling she attributed to the fact that in the field different responses occurred from different societies. There are places where the anthropologist, while gaining insights into a culture is regarded as a rather strange outsider, eliciting information and performing actions with which the individuals under study have at best little sympathy, and which they do not understand; on the other hand, there are groups with whom a mutual intelligibility of motivation in many areas occurs. It is in these that strong rapport is established, Dr. Mead believes.

In her re-visit to the Manus, Dr. Mead found that a stronger feeling of rapport existed than 25 years ago, because the Manus had

Portrait* by

LOUISE BARKER Photographer

1457 E. 57th St. BU 8-0876

become familiar with many aspects of western technology and thought. The extent of this familiarising process manifested itself in the tribe’s rearranging of its homes, in its becoming strongly interested in the workings of new

Margaret Mead

machines and in techniques of child care and medicine, and even in the readjusting of its chronology.

New role for anthropologist

The role of the anthropologist is consequently changed. There is more of a feeling of working together with a common stake, and of interchange of information. In answers to questions, Dr. Mead stated that she felt that a new aspect of her role was being a part of the change-causing factors among the Manus. This awareness entails, in research, a responsible intervening towards change, Dr. Mead stressed.

WHERE THE Uo^C j MEETS TO EAT G^ckn’4

W -FINE FOOD132 1 East 57th Street

Presenting

TOLK sure

WITH

& BIG BILL BROONZY ft

1 guitar F

1 FLEMING BROWN /

5 string banjo

FRIDAY, FEB. 12 8: P.M. 430 S. MICHIGAN AV.

(Roosevelt College)

Rm. 785 $1.20

A Sponsored by AMERICAN YOUTH HOSTELS Page 4

THE CHICAGO MAROON

February 12, 1954

Issued once weekly by the publisher. The Chicago Maroon, at the publication office, 5706 South University Avenue, Chicago 37, Illinois. Telephones: Editorial Office, Midway 3-0800, Ext. 1010; Business and Advertising Offices, Midway 3-0800, Ext. 1009. Distributed free of charge, and subscriptions by nail, $3 per year. Business Office hours: I to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday.

Arthur Brown Richard E. Ward

editor-in-chief nynaging editor

Hews editors: Naomi Birnbaum, Allen Janger, Nellie Stoneman

Hews Feature editor: Barbara Vogelfanger

Feature editor: Daniel Queen

Sports editor: Paul A. Hoffman

Copy editor: Shirley Long

Advertising manager: Revo Brown

Production manager: Joanna Herlihy

Editorial staff: Robert Bloch, William Brondon, Paul Breslow, Joy Burbach, Allen Coleman, Sandra Epstein, Leslie Foster, Suzanne Friedman, Ralph B Hirsch, Roberta Hopkins, Arlene Kramer, Bruce Larkin, Jon Majde, C. Roy Maisch, Robert Mc Cluskie, Spike Pinney, Merrill Rodin, Karl Rodman, David Schlessinger, Mitchell Slein, Judy Smith; Fronz Snyder, Harry Whiteley, Neal Mermoll, Justin Johnson, Wolf Roder

Cartoonist: Ray Nelson

Copy staff: Jerry Ex, Pam Brown

Photographers: Joe Wolf, Richard Kluckholn

Letters Explains preamble

As a member of SG, I should like to explain my part in the action in regard to the Michigan Plan.

The Administration and a large segment of Student Government were opposed to enforcing the Code as it stood, feeling that Phi Delta Theta should be given more time to work out its problem in its national convention. Another segment felt that, in any case, it was necessary to reach an agreement with the Administration which it would be willing to enforce and which would provide for a definite deadline.

It was said that CORSO had reached an agreement with the Administration that upon passage of the amendment to the Code it would accept the change and announce the new provision as official University policy. This agreement, and the publicity which can be based upon it were, in fact, the chief reasons for believing that the Administration would join in enforcing the new provisiorf. Neither of these elements were explicit when the Michigan Plan

was made a part of the Code in 1951. Accordingly, I introduced a preamble which stated the above agreement with the Administration and that if the Assembly had had sole jurisdiction in the matter, it would have enforced the Code as it stood. The preamble could have served as a check on any tendency of the Administration to equivocate or backtrack. Most important, however, it would have made the intent of the Assembly clear beyond doubt and would have explained to the student body the circumstances under which the decision was made.

I voted for the amendment because the new position of the Administration gives a real chance of actual, if not immediate enforcement of the ban on discriminatory fraternities. I believe that an extension of time was not warranted, but since SG does not have sole jurisdiction in the matter, a common ground with the Administration had to be found sooner or later. The most important thing to do is to reveal the weakness of SG’s position.

Frank Kirk

SRP Social Science

1367 E. 57th St.

THE RECORD OF THE WEEK

Belshazzar's Feast by Walton Conducted by Sir Adrian Boult WL 5248 $4.29

SRP self-expressionists

I should like to call to your attention the actions of the minority party at the meeting of Student Government on Tuesday, February 9.

After the passage of the amendment to the Michigan plan, over nearly unanimous SRP opposition, an SRP leader made a motion to dissolve the Student Government. His reasoning was difficult to follow, but the burden of it seemed to be that the Assembly had abrogated its responsibility to the students by failing to adopt the views of a handful of SRP’ers.

After this motion was disposed of, and after a move to delay implementation of the original bill by reconsideration was shown to be out of order, the minority party found that it had used up its rule book. Nothing daunted, they followed a procedure not unfamiliar to them; they made up their own rules.

All but one of the SRP assembly members and all of their broad base of popular support in the visitors’ section marched out of the assembly room in protest. (There’s a rumor that they serenaded the majority party from outside the window, but the acoustics were bad and no one seems to be sure.)

As SRP may have suspected their mass exit broke the quorum. This prevented the Assembly from considering the next item of business, a bill that had been placed high on the agenda on the motion of minority members and was indeed sponsored by two of them.

Their entire performance, with all its ludicrous sidelights, was the most graphic example to date of the traditional SRP attitude toward Student Government. Their emphasis on self-expression, rather than on responsibility as representatives of the students could have led only to the evenis of Tuesday night.

Herbert Schwarts, Vice-President Student Government

 = For =

1 Valentines 1

E and =

I Washington Prom |

= it's =

FLOWER SHOP

TWO Convenient Locations 1225 E. 63rd 1301 E. 5 5th

HY 3-5353 Ml 3-4020

Special Student Discount

Chides ISL, SRP

We feel that the events which took place in SG last Tuesday, culminating in the walkout" of SRP should be discussed with the campus. We believe that the pompous and self-interested action of the elected representatives of both parties shows a complete disregard for their duties to the students who elected them. Therefore, so that in the future the students will know for what and for whom they are voting, what follows is relevant.

The president of Student Government, Clive Gray, nas long amazed its members with his misuse of the powers of the chair. Tuesday his violations of parliamentary procedure and of common courtesy raised questions as to his suitability for the office. Not only did he insult members of the minority party seeking the floor, but, when on a point of privilege, he was asked to cease, he shouted that the members have “no right to criticize the chair.” In an insolent manner he stifled genuine applause by the spectators, saying that they had no permission? to express themselves thusly. Finally, he refused a minority member, Mr. Kirk, the right of reconsideration on the main motion (the Michigan Plan Amendment), completely without moral or legal justification.

A by-law of SG states that replacements must be made from the same party as that of the member who has resigned. The executive council < ISL) has refused to seat a member of SRP petitioning to succeed an SRP’er. Pending a court ruling on the legality of this by-law, the only ethical course for the government is to seat the petitioner.

Though the ISL forced adjournment by calling a quorum when it could have continued business, the walkout of the SRP members was by far the most inexcusable action of the evening. The walkout prevented.important business from being enacted, some of which was initiated by and of particular interest to the minority. It also seemed to show an emotional, irresponsible outlook on the part of those who participated. This, coupled with the actions mentioned above, indicate that SG must take intelligent stock of itself if it is to be any more than the debating society that it has often been accused of being.

Karl Rodman Joel Rosenthal Lorry Lichtenstein

 * Bravo! Encore! ; > Welcome back this week, Mr. Guinness, in !

The Lavender Hill Mob and J * The Man in the White Suit J I Coming—Feb. 26. All on one great film program—Annapurna, Little I * Fugitive; ond the UPA cartoons—Edgar Allan Poe's, The Tell-Tale ’ [ Heart and James Thurber's, A Unicorn in the Garden. J Ij NO. 7-9071 HYBE PARK THEATRE lt A^d PAKK ; ; J Student Kate 50c All Performances * Collegiate Scene Discrimination decreases; tie wearers face ostracism

by John Twomey

The University of Washington Daily reported the results of a survey of anti-discrimination policies on the campuses in the Pacific Northwest. Students and administrators of 38 institutions of higher learning located in Montana, Idaho, Oregon and Washington were questioned. The Pacific Northwest

Committee on Human Relations in Higher Education which conducted the study states that 

no discrimination exists in admission policy either in statesupported or the non-supported institutions. Service organizations are reportedly virtually non-discriminatory, as are campus and faculty hiring policies. The pic Winsberg disturbing

I am very disturbed by tne music review’s of Fred Winsberg. The review in the 2/5/54 issue, for instance, I find absolutely deplorable. I can find no reason for including personal dislikes or likes of the works themselves, in an article designed to inform the reader of the merits, few or many, of the performance. I find no interest in the fact that Mr. Winsberg does not like tne Stravinsky Mass for a Mixed Chorus and Double Wind Quintet I believe that this and the Byrd (which Mr. Winsberg also criticized) were performed for the enafter the Wash Prom Alexander’s

1137 East 63rd Street

ture looks encouraging but leaves room for much improvement as witnessed by the report of widespread discrimination in Greek letter societies, off campus housing, and job placement.

Ties taboo

On the Kansas University campus nine male sociology students recently cooperated with their professor in a week long endeavor to learn more personally the concept of social sanctions. The essence of their experiment in nonconformity was the wearing of ties to classes. The experiment was predicated on the belief that “at most schools in the country the wearing of ties is virtually taboo for undergraduates.”

The students reported that all week long they were met with questions, laughter, hisses, and sometimes ostracism. One sophomore was told to stop wearing ties or he would give the fraternity a bad name. February 12, 1954

Ward tells of Soviet education, recalls impressions of schools

by Richard E. Ward

The most vivid impressions from my trip to the Soviet Union were of our visits to the schools. Here we had the opportunity to freely talk with people our own age, and most important, with common interests.

Moscow University, or Lemonosov University, as it is named — after the noted Russian scientist, philologist, and poet — was the first of eight schools we visited.

Moscow University is the largest in the Soviet Union, and the branch for scientific studies, which we visited, has 18,000

students studying in one huge sprawling 32 story building. This widely publicized structure houses the laboratories, classrooms, cafeterias, lounges, gymnasia, auditoriums, and dormitories. We were told that 6,000 students live in the dormitories and that the rest commute from different areas of Moscow.

Students greet editors

We were met by a small group of students on our arrival at the university and were then officially greeted by the pro-rector, the second highest administrative official of the* school.

Several students and instructors explained what was taught at the university. The courses of instruction include art, history, economics, law, philosophy, journalism, matematics, physics, chemistry, biology, geology, and geography. We later learner! that most Soviet universities offer similar areas of study.

Teachers in special schools

For students who plan to teach, there are special pedagogical institutes. Other specialized instruction is offered at schools like the

A CASA Book Store VALENTINES Contemporary and Traditional Guaranteed typewriter repair service

1117 E. 55th St. HY 3-9651

Join a progressive dynamic company that is setting new records in the electronic industry

Jr AYTHEOn;

Seniors and Graduate Students

Openings available for: ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS • CHEMICAL ENGINEERS MECHANICAL ENGINEERS • PHYSICISTS

RAYTHEON is a pioneer and a leader in the electronic industry.

First to provide transistors in production quantities.

First to solve the problems of the mass production of magnetrons.

The leading supplier of commercial radar and underwater sound equipment.

Out front in research and engineering in receiving tubes, special purpose, klystron, cathode ray, and magnetron tubes, digital computers, ultrasonic equipment, control mechanisms, radar, communications, and TV equipment.

Raytheon Manufacturing Company Waltham, Massachusetts

Call your College Placement Office for appointment

CAMPUS INTERVIEWS

Friday, February 19

^

RESTRING WITH

STANDS UP in your racket • Moisture Immune • Lasting Liveliness

STANDS OUT In play

• Harder Smashes • Better Cut and Spin

COSTS LESS than gat

APPROX. ITHNONO COST. Pro-Fectad Braid. ..$6.00 Multi-Ply Braid.$5.00

At tennis shops and sporting goods stores.

ASHAWAY BRAIDED RACKET STRING Choice of The Champions

JAZZES

• BOYD ROLANDO Tenor Sas

Reports on Soviet

This is the second installment by Richard E. Word, MAROON managing editor, on his trip to the Soviet Union. The third installment will appear next week.

Moscow institute of foreign languages, where our three interpreters studied English.

After the interview, we toured the university and spoke with students who came up to us inquiring where we were from. A student who noticed my curiosity invited me into his room. The student, a friendly chap about twenty-five, was in his fifth year in physics. Conversation was difficult at first, as the interpreters were not present. The student spoke some English and German, in which we conversed. He was planning to specialize in nuclear physics. I knew enough Russian to be able to read the name of Fermi, the author of one of his books. He was anxious to know about the student life in America. Moscow school first-rate

The facilities at the University

THE CHICAGO MAROON

of Moscow are all first-rate. It has the advantages of being new and not having been bombed, unlike most of the other schools we visited. The entrance halls and foyers are finished in marble, students’ rooms — about the size of B-J rooms—are brightly colored, with one student per room. There are numerous lounges and a large student clubhouse.

The day following our visit to the university we called again, for a New Year’s Eve party. Here I received my first taste of Soviet vodka. Our interpreter asked if we had had vodka before, and what kind. I said we had drunk Smirnoff’s and it was not as good as what we were presently drinking. Our interpreter explained that this was because Smirnoff had fled the revolution and his vodka had not progressed since 1917. '

Editor converses in German

The party was a gala affair. After a great amount of vodka toasts, and food, we joined the dancers. The girls with whom I danced did not know English. Again German was our medium of communication.

In Leningrad, we visited the Polytechnic Institute, or engineering institute. It was built in 1898 and reminded me of Kent Hall. We were told that Botvinnic, world chess champion, is a graduate of the institute.

Program lasts five years

There are 9,500 students, engineering and other technical studies, and a faculty of 950 instructors. The program of study lasts

five years, as at all institutions of is based on. his scholarly achievehigher learning in the USSR. In

his last year the student writes a paper on some elementary scientific investigation.

Twenty-five per cent of the engineering students are women. At

mx^\%xx%xxwixiw^

| READY TO

| PAINT

2 Bookcases

5 Record Cabinets

 Storage Cabinets

2 Chests-of-Drawers

Hermans

935 E 55th st.

Open thurs. til 9 XXXXXXXXXXXVXXXVXV

Page 5

A scene in a biology class of the Girls' Middle School No. 19 in Tblisi, Georgia, U.S.S.R. The students shown are in their eighth year. On the wall appears a picture of Michurin, noted Russian naturalist who expanded the theories of Darwin.

the universities the ratio is about half men and half women.

We visited the student hostel dormitory at the institute. At random we walked down corridors and knocked on doors. Almost all the students were studying. The exam session was in progress. We learned that many of the exams are administered orally. The exam session lasts until the third week in January and then the students have a two week vacation. The system almost coincides with the semester system.

Crowded conditions prevalent

The students in the dormitories talked freely. They spoke of the day when their school would be like Moscow University. At present, there are four students to a room in the hostel. They said that similar crowded conditions are prevalent at other schools due to large influx of students after the war and to destruction of formerly existent living space.

The Leningrad students were very insistent on knowing whether all graduates of American institutions of higher learning could get jobs. The students also asked us about scholarships. Approximately 90-95 per cent of the students receive stipends. Their stipends range from 250 to 750 rubles per month, and are for all living and other expenses of students. Tuition is only 400 rubles per year. The students’ stipend

ments and number of dependents,

if any, and his year in school. Also, if the student agrees to be placed in a position by the government upon graduation, he receives a small additional sum.

Tech students learn politics

We talked about the curriculum with the Leningrad students. Two years of political economy and four years of physical culture are required. Otherwise the study program is similar to that of an American engineering school. The extra-curricular life has many similarities also. Sports and cultural groups are heavily stressed.

One organization, however, the Komsomol < Young Communist League), is unlike any found at an American university. An im International House Movie Program

Monday. February 15 — KAMERADSCHAFT (German) Assembly Hall, 8:00 P.M. Admission 50c.

Thursday, February 18 — GREEN PASTURES (American) East Lounge, 7:00 P.M. and 9:00 P.M. Admission 35c.

h GUEST STARS EVERY SUNDAY NITE o

JAZ?DW

“The Battle of the Hot Rhythms

EVERY NIGHT —7 Night# • Wnb

• NEV BARCLAY Guitar It Banjo

• DAVE DE VORE String Bass-Tuba

CO^^^

;4k M.

“BEGINS AT 9 P.M. EVERY NIGHT*

Chet Robie, Sunday Nnight Guest Star

portant function’ of the Komsomol is the training of youth for the Communist party. The membership consists of both students and workers between the ages of 14 and 25. Usually about 95 per cent of the student body are members of the group. The executive council serves a purpose similar to that of a student council. Many phases of the students’ extra-curricular life are encompassed by the organization. In most schools, Komsomol publishes the student newspaper.

Soviets teach English, German ,

Many students we talked with knew English. At present, English and German are the most widely taught foreign languages in the USSR for their use in technical studies. No student enters an institute or university without a fair knowledge of a foreign language.

Before attending the institute or university the student must be a graduate of a “middle school.” This is a ten-year school which the student enters at the age of seven.

Editors visit girls' school

We visited a girls’ middle school in Tiflis, where we learned that the program offers the equivalent in course material of an American high school. Recently, only seven years of schooling were compulsory in the USSR; now ten are required. The schools are separated by sex, except in rural areas. The principal of the school in Tiflis, a handsome woman about fifty, told us she believes that Segregation of the sexes is better during school hours, however that there is considerable controversy among Soviet educators on the question.

We visited many of the classes in the school. In the English class, the girls were reading a passage about Byron. Their vocabulary was good, but their pronunciation needed polishing. They begin their foreign language in the fourth year of studies. For these girls, it was their third language. As they were Georgians, they not only knew their native tongue, but in the second year they began the study of Russian.

DIXIE *’S

• JACK IVETT

Cornet

• FLOYD BEAN

Piano

• JIM BARNES

Drums

• JUG BERGER

Clarinet

• EDDIE SCHAEFFER

Trombone Classified

Services

Lost and Found

Friday, Feb. 12

Humboldt Club will present Dr. Gamer lecturing on “Meine Erlebnlsse auf

der deutschen

Ing at 4 p.m. 408.

•Greed,” a film Stroheim, will

Autobahn” at a meetin Wieboldt Commons

directed by Erich Von be shown by the Film

Study Group at 7:15 and 9:30 p.m. at Social Sciences 122. Series ticket $1.

Hillel Fireside. Dr. James G. Miller, professor and chairman, department of

psychology, will talk on “The Impact of Religion on Personality” at 8:30 p.m., 5 < 15 Woodlawn. The Sabbath Service will precede the f Fireside at 7:45.

Sunday, Feb. 14

Boc Keic*av r ’ Chapel Service

\

at 11 am. Thompson, preach.

Carillon Recital at 3:30 p.m. In Rockefeller Memorial Chapel. James R.

The Reverend John B.

Dean of the Chapel, will

Lawson, Carilloneur. .

Italian llum Meeting in Home Room International House at 3:3U p.m. Illustrated lecture on Italian cities.

•My raitn and My Proiession” is the topic oi a lecture sponsored by Calvert Club that will oe given by Howard V. rahey of the department of music, 4:ju p.m. at De bales House, 5735 university Avenue. It will be followed ai b p.m. by a supper, admission oo cents.

UC Chapter oi the Intercollegiate Zionist Feueration of America will hold a meeting, 7:3U p.m. at Hillel Foundation. 'mere will be a discussion on religion in Israel, followed by singing ana aancing. Open to all u C students.

UC Glee Liuu rehearsal in Blaine Hall from 4 to 5:30 p.m.

Porter foundation will hold a discussion and meeting at international House, Room A, at 7:30. thermit EOy, prolessor of social sciences will speak on “This 1 Hold to Be Most Important.” Refreshments.

Monday, Feb. 15

The Waig Avcn Foundation Lecture Series, sponsored by the Walgreen Foundation, will be continuea 8 p m. at Judd 126. “TVA: An Approach to the Development of a Region,” will be presented by Gordon R. Cnapp, Chairman of tne Board, TVA.

•Kameraschatt” is the German film that will be shown at International House, 8 p.m. Admission is fifty cents.

Tuesday, Feb. 16

The Inter-varsity Cnristian Fellowship will sponsor a luncheon, 12:30 to 1:2U p.m., at Ida Noyes, tnird floor. Miss Alice Reid, traveling secretary for IVCF will speak on “Should We Accept the Bible’s Claims About Itself?” Admission free.

•The Brothers Karamazov’* is the motion picture to be presented at Soc. Sci. 122 at 7:15 and 9:30 p.m. Admission 50 cents.

Au Organ Recital will be held at Rockefeller Chapel at 8:15 p.m. The Chapel Organist will be Heinrich Fleischer. Compositions will include works by Bach and Buxtehude.

Communications Club will sponsor a lecture at 8 p.m. at Soc. Sci. 201 by Kermit Eby, Professor of Social Sciences, on “Social Conscience and the Facts of Life.”

Concert Band Rehearsal will be held

Country Dancers will sponsor an evening of English and American Country Dancing, 7:45 p.m. at Ida Noyes, Cloister Club. Beginners welcome; please wear tennis shoes. Admission free.

Science-Fiction Club will hold a meeting 7:30 p.m. at Ida Noyes. There will be a recording. “Impressions of Outer Space” and program notes by Samuel Mines. Everyone welcome.

"ioheleth: the Gentle Cynic,** is the subject of a lecture that will be delivered by Coert Rylaarsdam, associate professor of FTS, Hillel Foundation, 5715 Woodlawn, at 8 D.m. Admission free.

SU Outing Club will hold a meeting for students interested in the ski trip that is scheduled March 17-28. Ida Noyes at 8 p.m.

“The Problem of the Saar** is the subject of a lecture by Helmut Hirsch, associate professor of European History. It will be sponsored by the Graduate History Club and Political Science Club, and will take place at a joint meeting of the clubs, 8 p.m., at Ida Noyes, Sun Parlor, third floor.

Kermit Eby, Professor of Social Sciences will address the International House Discussion Group on “Vested Interests in Defense,” 8 p.m. at Int. House, East Lounge. Admission free.

The Oriental Institute will sponsor an Illustrated lecture on “Muslim Art in North Africa.” The speaker will be Roger le Tourneau, Professor of Hlstory and Civilization of the Muslim West in the University of Algiers. It will be delivered 8:30 p.m. at the James Henry Breasted lecture hall.

Hillel Foundation will hold a class 3.30 p.m. at 5715 Woodlawn. Rabbi Fraubart will lead the newly formed Talmud class in “Kiddushin.” There will he no charge.

“Preen Pastures,” an American film, will be shown at International House, East Lounge. There will be showings at 7 and 9 p.m. Admission is 35 cents.

UC Sailing Club will hold a racing class, 7:30 p.m. at the Columbia Yacht Club.

Professor Alfred Kraessel of the social science division center for economic development and cultural change will speak on “Peru” at the auditorium of the Blackstone Library. 4904 S. Lake Park at 8 p.m. Admission free.

8 p.m. at Sunny Gym, Kenwood Avenue.

5823 South

Wednesday, Feb. 17

Carillon Recital will take

place 4.30

p.m. at Rockefeller Memorial Chapel. James R. Lawson will be the Cariflonneur.

•Faust, or the Moral Ambiguity of the Quest for Truth” will be discussed by Professor Heller, in another lecture in the series, “The Romantic Mind,” sponsored by the Committee on Social Thought. 4:30 p.m. at Soc. Sci. 122.

Tour of the Physiology Building will be the main activity at a meeting of the Pre-med Club. Abbott 133 from 4-5 p.m.

UC Glee Club Rehearsal will be held at Blaine Hall from 7-8:30 p.m.

One and Two-Room Furnished Kitchenette

APARTMENTS AND ROOMS

nicely furnished; clean, quiet; electric refrigeration; newly decorated; well maintained building.

ALSO SLEEPING ROOMS REASONABLE

6019-21 South Dorchester Ave. on Midway

near all transportation ring manager's bell

!K;®^

Round Trip via Steamship $9RA FREQUENT SAILINGS AVV

Tovrist Rond Trip Air

’ORR10 o,f MQ^* i B v Ov season w Ow season

CWm of Over 110 STIIENT CUSS TOHS $C J A TRAVEL STIR TOUR • w CORHCTEI TORRS >|

University Travel Co., official bonded agents for all lines, has rendered efficient travel service on a business basis since 1926.

' See your lotol travel agent tor folder* and detail* " *^"^

UNIVERSITY TRAVEL CO.

Harvard Sq.; Cambridge, Mass.

For Sale

Quiet, competent bartender available for private parties. David Lester, 6042 Ingleside.

Lost: One Soc Sci II notebook in Classics 16. Please return to Theoharis,

Poodles, white toy pups. AKC. Call eve nlngs, Herzog, MI 3-3185.

A good pitcurc is the best possible Investment. Contact Kluckhohn, c/o MAROON or Reynolds Club desk.

Lost: Round silver earring. Social Science Mg. or University, or 58th. H. M Hughes, Ext. 2519 or PL 2-5656.

9x12 French Wilton rug in excellent condition, will sacrifice. Leave message for Bill Cohen, MI 3-0800, ext. 1072.

Lettering artist. All forms of advertising. Finest signs my specialty. Gilbert J. Ginsburg, Hitchcock 46.

Lost: Nat Sci 3 physical syllabus, part 1, volume 1, Electricity and Magnetism. Last week, Reynolds club. Joe Wolf ES 5-1615.

Baby butler: safest most economic baby feeding unit. Feldman, DO 3-1322.

Typing work wanted. Phone Mrs. Pan Tvr:__o L 1-2. 71—____22_ 7_~ Lost: Huyghen's “Treatise on Light” nabecker, KE 6-8689 or see Pannabecker, and Nat Sci 3 syllabus, part I. Shirley - • Rubin, DO 3-2808.

Heathkit pre-amp; painstakingly built; excellent condition. Sell or trade for $100 pre-amp. Bill Van Arsdel, Ext. 1040.

Zoology Room 31-A.

Will care for baby in my home. Licensed. BU 8-7613.

Lost: Blue-green Parker 51 pen. University area. Monday, February 8. Call DO 3-2775. Reward.

Wanted

Tutoring in Nat Sci I, physics, math. Call PL 2-3790 weekends.

Sporting student wants sports car. Preferably MG in good condition. Paul Wenger, 5747 University, PL 2-9718.

Mathematics special instruction to fit your mathematical needs. Individual or group sessions at our Loop office or location of your choice. Soglln Associates, ST 2-6727.

Found: assorted earrings. A poly at MAROON office.

Baby stroller cheap. Also 8X field glasses. BU 8-7876.

Help Wanted

Indian type blanket for child’s bed. Used. Call WH 3-0440 evenings or weekend.

Riders to New York. Leaving March 19, returning March 27 th. $25. Call LA 5-3229.

Summer camp positions. Counsellors, waterfront, nature, craft specialists for camp near Mc Henry, Illinois. Excellent accommodations. Room, board. Phone HA 7-8220.

For Rent

Space for male sharing 5-room apartment. Folksongs, psychology, authoritarianism. $25 month. 6347 Maryland. FA 4-0525.

For man: small light room, semi-private bath. $7. DO 3-0539.

Large front room, newly decorated, in home of faculty member. Near campus. Call PA 4-3041.

Famished bedroom, adjoining bath and kitchen. Upstairs of private home. Male. Reasonable. 5429 Ellis. HY 3-9150.

Graduate student to share 4-room apartment with same. $30 month. UC vicinity. BO 8-1423 before 9 a m.

GUADALAJARA SUMMER SCHOOL

The accredited bilingual summer school sponsored by the Universidad Autonoma de Guadalajara and members of the Stanford University faculty will be offered in Guadalajara, Mexico, June 27 • August 7, 1954. Offerings include art, creative writing, folklore, geography, history, language and literature courses. $225 covers sixweeks' tuition, board and room.

Write Prof. Juan B. Roel, Box K.

Stanford University, Colif.

FOR SALE

No Doubt About It

This is one of the finest homes we've been privileged to offer. Immaculate thru out, new gas boiler, new tile baths, powder rm., rumpus rm., breakfast nook, fire places, deep freeze, large landscaped yard with underground sprinkling system. 4 bedrooms plus maid's rooms, near campus. Sensibly priced.

56th Street near Kimbark Ave.

Call

E. Hector Coates

Swan~Lorish, Inc

1355 E. 53rd St.

DOrchester 3-6200

ITS ALL A MATTER OF TASTE

f ne Ber^stei^

State U‘v

COPR.. THS AMERICAN TOBACCO COMPANY

When you come right down to it, you smoke for one simple reason enjoyment. And smoking enjoyment is all a matter of taste. Yes, taste is what counts in a cigarette. And Luckies taste better.

Two facts explain why Luckies taste better. First, L.S. M.F.T.—Lucky Strike means fine tobacco light, mild, goodtasting tobacco. Second, Luckies are actually made better to taste better .• . . always round, firm, fully packed to draw freely and smoke evenly.

So, for the enjoyment you get from better taste, and only from better taste, Be Happy—Go Lucky. Get a pack or a carton of better-tasting Luckies today.

V you're the ^y^^

V ^ee his "^S^T dough*

All.,." D-”'4 Cornell

Here's a ^J? Tbu the ca luck’®4 W

Where’s your jingle?

It’s easier than you think to make $25 by writing a Lucky Strike jingle like those you see in this ad. Yes, we need jingles —and we pay $25 for every one we use! So send as many as you like to: Happy-Go-Lucky, P. O. Box 67, New York 46, N. Y.

ln LUCKIES TASTE BETTER =

CLEANER,

FRESHER,

SMOOTHERS Februar/ 12, 1954

THE CHICAGO MAROON

Page 7

Review presents its view

by the editors of the 'Chicago Review'

Despite their suspicions as to our despondency and academic preoccupations, the editors of the MAROON have asked us to discuss the nature and rationale of the Chicago Review. Reflecting on the seven-year history of the magazine we were reminded of a remark by William Carlos Williams which was recency called to our attention: in writing to Margaret Anderson, Dr. Williams observed that while some of the pieces which the Little Review published were not good, the Little Review itself was good.

Lest this sound too cavalier

and ungrateful to our predecessors and present contributors, we hasten to add that the comment should be taken metaphorically: that is, the Chicago Review’ is more than the sum of its parts; it is the idea of a worthwhile literary magazine, rather than this or that particular issue, which matters most.

We cannot guarantee the Great American Poem or Epic, and are unwilling to delude ourselves into thinking that adherencr to certain political lines

will automatically insure quality; what we can and do attempt to do is to provide this campus with an open channel for the creative and critical efforts of the University community. To this end we solicit the poets and essayists hopefully, and wait patiently for the student manuscripts.

The former do respond — witness the appearance of Tennessee Williams, Paul Eluard? Peter Viereck and others in the past and the appearance of Marianne Moore, David Riesman, Isabella Gardner, W. R. Keast, among others, in the issue which will be on

New and old pottery exhibit Last Wednesday the Renaissance Society at the University of Chicago opened an exhibit in the galleries in Goodspeed Hall, 1010 East 59th St. The exhibition is entitled “A Selection of Modern

Pottery.” It will be open Monday Friday 9-5, and Saturdays 1-5 through March 3.

Also in Goodspeed is a showing of "Daunian Pottery of the 6th to 4th Centuries B. C.,” from the collection of Byron Farwell. This exhibit also opened last Wednesday, and will be open at times to be announced.

) LAYWRIGMTS

PLAYWRIGHTS THEATRE CLUB

1560 N. La Salle

Tickets $1,50, $2.00

Jan. 27 - Feb. 21 Wednesday thru Sunday

Curtain 8:30

Pick up tickets at the Reynolds Club

sale February 22; the latter respond, but often with a diffidence which belies a large student body which has the reputation of being highly articulate.

Perhaps this is a situation indigenous to an Age of Criticism and Seif-consciousness, but we do wish to state that all manuscripts are welcome and will be judged impartially. The important thing is that the Review does exist, and, while something less than a Cause, exists only in proportion to the active interest which its readers manifest.

In spite of the usual financial problems the Review is currently undergoing a process of growth and expansion: national and foreign distribution, as well as national advertising have begun in earnest. Campus sales and response, however, remain our primary concern. The Review is designed to represent and reflect the talents and tastes of the University and needs the wholehearted support of its friends and critics.

'The World of Sholom Aleichem' to open at Eleventh St. Theatre

The World of Sholom Aleichem, the off-broadway play which received unanimous critical praise from New York and national press, will open tomorrow night at the Eleventh St. Theatre. The Chicago production will co-star Howard Da Silva, who played Jud in the original production of Oklahoma; Ann Revere, who won an Academy Award for her performance in National Velvet, played the lead in Children’s Hour and recently appeared at UC, reading Salt of the Earth; and Joseph Ben Ami, who has been called the greatest Yiddish actor in America. A special student matinee will be presented next Wednesday. Call HA 7-5570 for information.

Hiltner applies sex data objectively

"Sex Ethics and the Kinsey Reports" by Seward Hiltner. Association Press (YMCA-YWCA), 195 3, 23 8 pp., $3.00.

H. L. Menken in his book of quotations has selected the following as one of several on the subject of sex: "There are three sexes; male, female, and clergymen."

Seward Hiltner's new book on the first two mentioned sexes is a thoroughly honest and highly competent

analysis of Kinsey's findings and their implications for ethics.

It does not pretend that either Reverend Hiltner, acting dean of FTS, or his readers are members of a third and insulated sex, nor does it intimate that he and his colleagues in the field of pastoral counselling have some mystic absolutes up their sleeves, denied to lesser mortals, some prepared lines to which they can retire in good order if the going gets too objective.

A fog of semi-hysteria today surrounds the Kinsey reports. It keeps mention of them off the air, refuses them discussion time on serious panel programs (including our own U of C

RECORD

SALE-AND-A-HALF

ON RECORDS!

Columbia LP's — Buy Them in Pairs

The First at Full Price, the Second at Half Price

RCA-¥ictor LP’s 12" Are Down to $3.99 Singly or in Sets!

FOR A LIMITED TIME ONLY

ACT NOW! COMPLETE YOUR COLLECTION. GET THAT BACH OR MOZART YOU'VE BEEN WANTING. A BIG SAVING ON GREAT VALUES. *

UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO BOOKSTORE

5802 Ellis Avenue Chicago 37, Illinois

Washington Prom Corsages at art miller’s Beach FLOWER SHOP

1551 Hyde Park Blvd. FA 4-4200-01

 

CA MP’S

I TUXEDO RENTAL ••

Special Student Rate For The Wash Prom

6858 Stony Island

FA 4-9550

Acrotheatre initiates modern dance work

One of the newer additions to the activities of Acrotheatre is a program of modern dance.

During earlier seasons, Director Bud Beyer became interested in the possibilities of combining acrobatics and the dance. Experiments along these lines began this year and attracted heavy support from veteran performers and fledglings in die

Howard Da Silva

group.

“Before such experiments could get seriously underway, it was necessary that Acrotheatre members become thoroughly grounded in the standard or more fundamental techniques of modern dance.” Under the direction of Mrs. Dolores D. Wharton the group has received basic training in the techniques of such dancers as Martha Graham and Jose Limon. The modern dance classes have attempted to achieve imaginative expression on the part of each class member.

In the last five months little else been accomplished except the general training of the students in the use of the body, Beyer said. Nevertheless, effort has been made to give greater individual expression within the accepted techniques of the dance. In addition, students have been given frequent glimpses and tastes of some of the more stylized performers.

The most recent additions to the modern dance programs have been some of the more exotic areas of - dance such as Oriental and Afro-Cuban.

Student members of the group are now in the process of preparing the choreography for some acrobatic ballets to be presented on the April Mandel Hall program.

round table, according to a field chairman of our acquaintance), and even bars serious reviews of them from most periodicals,, now that the thirty-day sensa- * tion is over.

In contrast to the outpourings of such quasi-respectable sociologists as Pytrim A. Sorokin who thought with his glands in the January 10 This Week Magazine and muttered darkly about motherhood and the fall of Rome, Dr. Hiltner’s book is a beacon of good sense in parlous times.

Hiltner, in evaluating Kinsey’s work is both generous and honest, and in his attempts to

relate Kinsey’s data to the Judao-Christian view of sex he is adoit if not completely convincing.

The adroitness consists in drawling out the implications of the Old and New Testament attitudes toward sex (touching that confirmed misogynist St. Paul very lightly), and demonstrating with considerable dialectical skill that the Judao-Christian view of sex is one which is non-absolutistic in theory and ever-ready for n^v data. It fails to convince because Dr. Hiltner is forced to admit that such a non-absolutistic view is today emphatically not that of the vast majority of Christians or Jews.

The book is valuable to others besides pastoral counsellors because it is an honest evaluation of Kinsey’s methods (generally favorable), a recapitulation of

Chapel organist to give concert

Next Tuesday, at 8:15 p.m., Heinrich Fleischer, Chapel organist, will give a recital at Rockefeller Memorial Chapel, 59th St. and Woodlawn Ave. The program will include the Magnificat quinti toni by Scheidt; Buxtehude s Prelude and Fuge in F Sharp Minor; the Fantasy in C Minor, the chorale prelude By Adam’s Fall Is Mankind Lost and the Prelude and Fuge in C major by J. S. Bach; and David’s Chaconne in A Minor 11927). Admission is without ticket and without charge.

his major findings and their differences from the pious assumptions of the churches and the YMCA, and an excellent presentation of what is slowly and deservedly becoming the accepted pattern of understanding the Judao-Christian in the better theological schools across the country, and eventually, God wot, in the churches and temples of America. The fact that such a book has been published by the YMCA Press itself is a heartening sign of this growth.

Tis is a stimulating and valuable addition to the field of sex ethics and deserves the attention of the general reader as well as the specialist, t serves as one more span in that long bridge between idealist ethics and social data which our society so badly needs. Jay Chidsey Page 8 TH I CHICAGO MAROON Fabruary 12, 1954

Trackmen star in A AU meet

REMEMBER?

One year ago yesterday, the Maroon eagers ended a 45 game losing streak by defeating Navy Pier 65 - 53. Cause of the victory is usually attributed to a giant pep rally which drew students from all the dormitories to the Field-House to cheer the Maroons to victory. Shown above are a portion of the enthusiasts about an hour before game time.

Maroon eagers win close contest, 77-75

by Richard Herwitt

Four quick baskets by Illinois Professional School at the beginning of the fourth quarter last Saturday gave the Maroon quintet a scare, but the driving of Bob Mann enabled them to capture a slim lead near the end of the game, which they held until the buzzer sounded. The final score was 77-75.

Playing on a small strange floor, the Maroons immediately took control, and with Mann and Dave Smith doing most of the scoring, ended the first

period with a ten point margin. The west side Illini began to settle down, and held back the Maroon attack, so that the score at half time read 42-31.

Fred Hubbard fouled out in the second quarter, and guards Bill Lester and Dick Homer followed him in the third and fourth periods. Wally Lonergan and Mann kept the Maroon attack going, while Professional was hammering away at the basket in the last quarter.

Professional took the lead for the first time -halfway through

the final stanza, but the Maroons soon recaptured it. One by one the Illini added points until, with a minute and a half to go, Chicago found itself at a four point disadvantage.

A quick basket by Lonergan and a free throw by Walt Walker brought the Maroons within striking distance, and then two more baskets put them ahead by a point. With seconds left to play, Smith broke for the Professional goal and was fouled while shooting as the game ended. He sunk one of his charity shots to make the tally 77-75.

Relay team sets new meet record in mile Frank Loomos wins 65 yard low hurdles

by Justin Johnson

A new Michigan AAU record was set by the fast-stepping UC mile-relay-team at Yost Field-House in Ann Arbor, Michigan, last Saturday.

Running against defending champion Michigan Normal College and Loyola University, the quartet of Dave Shepard, Ken Stapely, Lowell Hawkinson and George Mc Cormick led

all the way as they were off

At the finish Chicago was out in front by 30 yards. With faster competition it is possible that the Chicago foursome will be able to seriously threaten the UC indoor record of 3:23 before the end of the season.

Frank Loomos, Chicago’s ace hurdler, beat the finest from Michigan, Michigan State, Purdue and Ohio State in the low hurdles. After winning his two qualifying heats. Loomos ran away with the

icially clocked at 3:25.7.

finals, beating the field by five yards. His time for the 65-yard hurdles was :07.5, just :00.1 second off the Yost Fieldhouse and Relays record.

Deike runs fast two-mile

, In the two-mile run. Captain Walt Deike ran a fine race to place third behind Warren Dreutzler, former Michigan State star, and Wallingford of the University of Michigan. Deike was unofficially timed in 9:39, just 7/10 sec SPORTS EVENTS THIS WEEK

Today JV Basketball Wheaton Academy 3:30 Field-House Tomorrow Track Wheaton & Wayne 2:00 Field-House Ice Hockey De Kalb 1 :30 North-Stands Swimming St. Louis 2:00 Bartlett Pool Wednesday Basketball Chicago Teachers 8:00 Field-House Thursday JV Track Austin H.S. 3:30 Field-House

NU fencing team slashes Maroons

Nothwestern fencers beat the Maroons for the second time this year Saturday afternoon 1611. UC made its best showing in the sabre competition, winning 7 to 2.

Dave Karcher scored three wins for Chicago in the sabre matches, as Alex Shane and Dave Bobrow won two each. Ernie Dunston won two matches with the foil.

Leyden defeats JV gymnasts

Leyden Community High school defeated the JV gymnasts 5047’a last Thursday. Both teams relied heavily on first year men, making the meet an even match, but Leyden had the advantage of home grounds and a back injury which kept the Maroon's Jerry Jordan out of the meet.

ond off the UC record for the distance.

JV trackmen defeated

The JV Track team placed second to Schurz in a quadrangular track meet at the Fieldhouse last Friday. Final score was Schurz 67 li. University 44%, Thornton Fractional 19%, St. George of Evanston 13. Captain Jim Brown led the JV scorers with 11H points by winning the 440, tying for first in the high jump, and placing fourth in the high hurdles.

Bill Mitchell won the low hurdles, was second in the 60 yd. dash, and fifth in the highs. Dick Scupi placed second in the mile, came back to win the 880, and tied for fourth in the high jump. In the pole vault, Mike Chernoff and Dave Nerthrop took second and tied for third.

League leading JVs to combat Wheaton today

JV basketballers defeated North

Park 40-34 Tuesday and triumphed over Luther North last Friday 59 44 to retain their first place tie in Private School League competition. Today the junior eagers face Wheaton, who share first place honors in what appears the battle to decide the championship. Game time is 2:30 p.m. in Bartlett Gym.

Playing on the North Park floor, the Maroons eked out a one point lead at the half and pushed ahead to win by the final six points. “Mitch” Watkins was high scorer with 17.

How the stars got started Winston-Salem, N. Q.

8^^

"> Vaughn Monroe says:

Tn high school, f^ I spent all my spare

•^- time Paying w*^

local bands.

I had a lot to learn before I could lead my own band.

I studied singing; eventually did the vocals — and found that the colleges kind of liked my recordings.

Been performing for ’em ever since!”

Popular Singing Star

START SMOKING

CAMELS YOURSELF!

/St-Mildness

I STARTED SMOKING CAMELS 2.2. YEARS AGO. THEYVE ALWAYS TASTED BEST, ALWAYS SEEMED MILDEST. I THINK CAMELS GIVE ANY SMOKER MORE PLEASURE. WHY NOT k TRY THEM? J

Smoke only Camels for 30 days — see for yourself why Camels’ cool, genuine mildness and rich, friendly flavor give more people more pure pleasure than any other cigarette! AT’y f^^Sk

V flavor

Camels agree with more people

THAN ANY OTHER. CIGAR-ETTE 1